1. Subclass 202
2. Global Special Humanitarian visa
3. For Applicants
4. For Proposers
Permanently
There is no visa application charge for this visa unless you are proposed under the Community Support Program by an Approved Proposing Organisation.
The decision process could take many months, or even years. The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply now
5. With this visa, you can
6. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident on the day you enter Australia on this visa. This counts for citizenship purposes.
7. Include family
You can include family in your application when you apply. You can also add certain family members to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
For this visa, your family are:
If your child is not dependent on you, they must apply for their own visa.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
It is important to declare all your family members, even if they will not be applying with you.
If you do not declare a family member in your application, you may not be able to propose them for a Humanitarian visa after you arrive in Australia.
8. Cost
There is no visa application charge for this visa unless you are proposed under the Community Support Program by an Approved Proposing Organisation.
9. Apply from
You must be outside Australia and outside your country of origin when you apply for this visa.
10. Processing times
The Special Humanitarian Program (SHP) receives more applications each year than the number of places available. Most SHP applications will take at least 6 years from date of lodgement to process. Applicants will be notified when their application reaches the next stage of processing or when the application is finalised.
We generally acknowledge humanitarian visa applications in writing. This may take some weeks.
Processing time is lengthy and varies according to the circumstances of each applicant.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We do not give processing updates.
SHP applications are processed in order of priority group. Visa applications for family reunion are more likely to be successful if the proposer is an immediate or close family member because they receive a higher priority.
Priority groups within the SHP are as follows:
A person who arrived in Australia as an unauthorised maritime arrival (UMA) on or after 13 August 2012 cannot propose family members under the Humanitarian Program. This is in line with the Migration Regulations 1994.
The Australian Government has established policy to guide decisions on which applications ought generally to be given priority. This policy includes those who are outside their home country and are one of the following:
As all humanitarian applicants are in similarly compelling circumstances, the Department is unable to expedite applications outside of these priorities.
11. Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
If you signed a health undertaking, you must comply with it.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
12. Assisted Passage
The Assisted Passage program supports the delivery of Australia’s Offshore Humanitarian Program and provides health screening and medical related services to Special Humanitarian Program visa applicants and visa holders.
The Assisted Passage service has now transitioned from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to Toll Transport Pty Ltd (Toll) effective 30 September 2024. IOM will continue to provide Assisted Passage services for Cox’s Bazar.
Toll will assist you to attend health appointments and, if you are granted a visa, assist you to travel to Australia.
Assistance for travel to Australia may be available through the International Organization for Migration (IOM) under their prepaid migration travel program. More information is available on the IOM website Travel to Australia with IOM.
You and your proposer are responsible for paying for your travel to Australia.
Please tell us about your travel bookings so that we can ensure you receive settlement assistance when you arrive in Australia.
Further information about Assisted Passage services for 202 Global Special Humanitarian visa applicants can be found in the information sheets below:
13. Travel
You and your proposer or approved proposing organisation are responsible for arranging your travel to Australia.
If the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter has passed, contact the visa processing office for a travel facilitation letter. We may first ask you to undergo a fresh medical examination.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport or other travel document. You will not get a label.
You must be outside Australia and outside your country of origin when you apply for this visa.
The discrimination would amount to a gross violation of your human rights in your home country.
You must be proposed for this visa by a person or organisation in Australia.
Your proposer must be one of the following:
Immediate family members can also propose you for this visa if they meet the eligibility requirements for a split family visa application.
The cost of the travel is your or your proposer’s responsibility. Assistance in facilitating travel to Australia can be provided by Toll who is the Department’s Assisted Passage service provider. Your Toll case manager will be in contact with you to offer assistance. This includes assistance with booking flights, obtaining exits permits and providing you with your AMS ImmiCard.
The AMS ImmiCard is an official International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) compliant travel document. It is also an identity document that you can use in Australia to prove your eligibility for government services and to check your visa details.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) can also provide you with assistance. Read more on International Organization for Migration website.
You or your proposer should tell the Department about your travel bookings so that we can ensure you receive an invitation to attend the Australian Cultural Orientation (AUSCO) program before you travel to Australia and settlement assistance when you arrive in Australia.
Your proposer also has other responsibilities to help you settle in Australia.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who do not apply with you might also have to meet our health requirement.
If you have compassionate and compelling circumstances, we might waive your health requirement
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who do not apply with you might also have to meet our character requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws by signing or accepting the Australian Values Statement.
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you can't provide these items, provide a statement explaining why you have no travel or identity documents.
If you have registered with any international organisation dealing with refugees, such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), please provide proof.
Provide a detailed statement, in English about why you left your home country.
Provide certified copies of any visas or residence permits you hold.
Provide certified copies of marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone else included in your application, even if they are not joining you in Australia.
Paper applications require 2 passport sized photographs per applicant. Print your name on the back of each photograph.
Online applications require 2 scanned photographs per applicant.
The photographs should be of the head and shoulders only against a plain background.
Unless you are applying under Community Support Program (CSP), your proposer must submit 2 forms, along with their supporting documents, for your application:
Your proposer will send you Form 842 to sign before they submit it.
Proposers under the CSP submit:
Your APO will explain the full process for submitting application forms under CSP.
Provide military service records or discharge papers if you served in the armed forces of any country.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship can include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
Unless you have a court order you must get consent for the child to resettle in Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
If the child is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
For every dependant aged 18 years or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. You must demonstrate financial, physical or psychological dependence.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Ensure that photos are saved under the name of the person in the photo, and all other files are clearly labelled in English.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
Have all documents certified. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
Apply for this visa online (preferred method of lodgement) or by post.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Apply online via our webform. Attach documents, including the required forms:
You can post your completed paper application and supporting documents to us at:
Special Humanitarian Processing Centre
Department of Home Affairs
GPO Box 9984
SYDNEY NSW 2001
Submit your visa applications and supporting documents together. This helps give us a clear idea of everyone that is applying for a visa.
In your application, you must list all family who are also applying for their own visa.
We will let you and your proposer (if you have authorised them) know when we have received your application and documents.
We can’t give updates on applications.
Wait for us to contact you.
Do not arrange travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied send them to the office where you sent the application, quoting the file number we have given you.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
We might ask you to attend an interview. You must bring your passport or other identification and any other requested documents. You might be asked about:
If we receive information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment.
We might contact your proposer to:
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the instalment after you get the invoice. Do not ask for the invoice.
In some circumstances you can add certain family members to your application before we decide on your application.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF).
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
You must be outside Australia when we make our decision.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
To find out about Australian history, culture, society and values, read the Life in Australia booklet.
You must come to Australia initially by the date specified in the letter we sent you when we granted your visa.
You or your proposer must pay for you to travel to Australia.
You will be contracted by Toll, who are the Department’s Assisted Passage service provider, to offer assistance with your travel arrangements to Australia.
Once you arrive, your proposer has responsibilities to help you settle in Australia.
The Australian Government also offers some general support services for visa holders.
This 5-day program is free and open to all humanitarian visa holders over the age of 5. It is delivered overseas, to give you an understanding of life in Australia before you arrive.
Read more about the AUSCO program.
This service will contact your proposer once your visa is approved. It is free and runs across Australia. The focus is on helping you to learn English and to gain education or work skills.
Read more about the Humanitarian Settlement Program.
You, and any family members travelling with you on the visa, may have a health check in the 72 hours before you leave for Australia. An approved immigration panel physician must do the check. This will assist in reducing any health issues after you arrive, and make resettlement easier.
Your departure health check might include:
You must agree to follow up on any health conditions after you arrive in Australia.
You must have a valid travel document.
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on board.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) to re-enter Australia. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
With this visa, you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. For more information on your workplace rights and entitlements see Visa holders and migrant workers.
If you are in Australia, you may be eligible for a free, fast-tracked skills assessment if you have skills in a priority occupation. For more information see Migrant Skills Incentives.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
You can also propose a family member for a Subclass 202 Global Special Humanitarian visa.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming an Australian citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day you entered Australia on this visa.
You must have a valid passport or non-citizen travel document to leave Australia. Find out more about non-citizen travel documents.
You must tell us if you have a new travel document so that we can link it to your visa.
You cannot use your ImmiCard to leave Australia and return.
Your visa allows you to travel overseas and return to Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) to re-enter Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.