1. Subclass 400
2. Temporary Work (Short Stay Specialist) visa
We can grant this visa for up to 6 months (depending on the circumstances).
Generally, for a stay period longer than 3 months, a strong business case must be provided with the application.
Your stay period in Australia commences once you arrive and does not restart each time you travel.
You can't apply for this visa in Australia or stay longer by extending this visa.
AUD415.00 (except in limited circumstances)
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa you can
Employers must provide a contract or letter of offer. See what they have to do in:
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 6 months, depending on the circumstances.
You must arrive in Australia within 6 months of the date the visa is granted, or a lesser period specified by the Minister. We will let you know when you must arrive in your visa grant letter.
Your visa stay period as shown on your visa grant letter will start on your first date of arrival in Australia. The stay period will not restart each time you arrive in Australia.
You can check your visa details in the visa grant letter or use VEVO.
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
Explore your visa options
6. Include family
You can include Members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
Both you and your family members who apply for the visa must meet our health requirements and character requirements.
Any family members included in your application are not permitted to work or study in Australia. You must be able to show that you and your family have enough means to support yourselves while in Australia.
7. Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
You will not need to pay this application charge if you are:
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
8. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we make a decision on your application.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case.
When applying for your subclass 400 visa, you will need to allow time for the application to be processed, taking into account the date you are intending to travel to Australia.
10. Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
11. Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
12. Travel
This is a temporary visa. You will have 6 months from the date the visa is granted to first enter Australia (or a lesser period specified). The period of stay you were granted starts on the date you first enter Australia.
The visa is granted with either:
Re-entering Australia on a multiple entry visa does not restart the period of stay you were granted.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You can apply for this visa if you have specialised skills, knowledge or experience that:
Non-ongoing work means work that is likely to be completed within 6 months or less, and you do not expect or arrange to stay in Australia after this time for any reason related to that work.
You will need to show that you have the skills, knowledge or experience to do this work. Things you could show us include:
The Australian business or overseas employer might need to show that they have tried to find Australian workers to do the work first, as this visa can't be granted if it affects employment or training opportunities for Australian citizens or permanent residents.
You will need to provide proof that you have work.  To see what you need to provide go to Step by Step, Gather documents.
You can apply for a subclass 400 to:
The subclass 400 visa does not allow a person to:
If you want to do these activities, you should consider applying for the Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) – Entertainment.
While you are in Australia, you and your family members must have adequate means to support yourselves.
You and your family members must meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
You must only intend to:
You can't use our temporary visa program to maintain ongoing residency in Australia.
The genuine temporary entrant (GTE) requirement helps us to make sure that you use temporary visas correctly.
We must be satisfied that you have a genuine intention to stay here temporarily to do the things you are allowed to do on this visa.
When assessing this, we will consider:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
See if you want help with your application or to organise health exams before applying
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the health examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather documents to prove your identity and show you have your employer's support, financial support and recommend health insurance. You will need to prepare them to submit online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You should provide a letter of invitation, job offer, employment contract or other document from an Australian organisation confirming they have employed you to work in Australia showing:
Workers in Australia, including visa holders with permission to work, have rights under Australian workplace law. For information on pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements see Fair Work Ombudsman’s Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT).
Some freelance work might be allowed (for example, a freelance journalist/photographer undertaking a media assignment). If you are doing this type of work, you will need to provide a copy of your itinerary and the details of your work assignment.
To prove that you can support yourself and any family you bring to Australia, provide:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer.
We will tell you if and when you need to provide police certificates.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file
You apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You and anyone included in your visa application must be outside Australia when you apply and when your visa application is decided.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the charge.
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
You can track and manage your application through ImmiAccount.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents
We can't give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if we need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you travel to Australia on a different visa and that visa ends, you can't get a bridging visa to stay in Australia. This is because you must be outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
You can add family members to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
For this visa your family members are:
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision by email.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the email with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you why we refused the visa.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
The visa stay period starts on the date you enter Australia.
You can check your visa stay period in your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You can't apply for this visa from within Australia.
You must apply for a different visa if you want to stay longer. See your options.
You must arrive in Australia within 6 months of the date the visa is granted, or a lesser period specified in the grant letter.
The visa stay period starts on the date you enter Australia. Your visa stay period is on your visa grant letter.
If you are granted a single entry visa, you will only be allowed to enter Australia once. To return to Australia after you leave, you will need to apply for a new visa.
If you are granted a multiple entry visa, you can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want during the visa stay period. The visa stay period does not restart each time you enter Australia.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your visa details and conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Family members who come with you are not allowed to work.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.