1. Subclass 838
2. Aged Dependent Relative visa
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Permanently
From AUD5,125.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
For more information, see Other Family Visa Queue
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa you can
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa until the travel validity expires.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity:
To see when your travel validity ends, use VEVO
6. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
7. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add them to your application at any time before we make a decision.
You will be required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, in the application form.
For this visa, your family members are your dependent child and stepchild.
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health  and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
8. Cost
This visa costs from AUD5,125.00. There is also an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
See more about visa fees and charges.
9. Apply from
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply and when we decide on your application.
Any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
10. Processing times
The demand for Other Family visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Other Family Visa queues and processing priorities.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be sponsored by an eligible relative or a relative's partner.
We must approve the sponsorship.
You must be old enough to receive the age pension in Australia.
You must have been dependent on your relative in Australia for basic needs like food, shelter and clothing for at least the last 3 years  before you apply for the visa.
You could be dependent on your relative due to disability that prevents you from working.
To be eligible for this visa you must have no partner.
The visa you currently hold must not have a no further stay condition on it.
See your conditions in VEVO.
You must be able to obtain an assurance of support.
An assurance of support assures us that you will not have to rely on government assistance after you enter Australia on this visa. The assurance is for you and any family members who come to Australia with you on this visa.
We will let you know when you need to the assurance of support.
Learn more about assurances of support.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
We might also ask that other family members also meet the requirement.
You, and family members who apply for the visa with you, must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members also meet the requirement.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
We will not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check your passport. If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You don't have to have a valid passport to apply but you must provide details of your most recent passport.
However, we will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
You will need proof of identity and character documents. You will also need your sponsor documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Your migration must be sponsored by your relative or relative's partner.
The sponsor must be:
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia (469KB PDF).
To prove your relationship with your sponsor, you will need to give us:
To prove that your sponsor is an eligible citizen or permanent resident, give us:
Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you to. Learn more about police certificates.
Show evidence you are related to your sponsor, such as:
Provide evidence you are dependent on your relative for basic needs such as food, shelter and clothing, and of how long this support has been provided. Evidence could include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
If the child is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
To be included in your visa application as a dependent child, your child must be:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Usually, your child or stepchild must be under 23 years old to be included in your application.
However, a dependant older than 23 years can be included if they are unable to earn a living to support themselves due to physical or cognitive limitations. In this case, provide information about the physical or cognitive limitation.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Provide 4 recent passport-size photos (45mm x 35mm)of anyone included in the application.
Photographs must be:
You can wear untinted prescription glasses. If you wear a head covering for religious reasons, you can show only your face.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have all other documents as a certified copy. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper. You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete Form 47OF Application for migration to Australia by other family members (615KB PDF).
Your sponsor must complete:
Complete the form in English.
You can't pay for this visa in person.
You must pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay for the application before it is submitted using the online portal payment function in ImmiAccount. Include evidence the application is paid for with your application.
For other payment options see how to pay.
You can't submit this application in person. Send the application by post or courier to the Parent, Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth at the address on the form. Include all required documents and forms with your application.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can't provide you with updates on your application's progress within normal processing times. We will let you know if you need to provide anything further.
Tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. We need to know because you must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we make our decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, send them to the Parent, Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth at the address on the form. We might also ask you to provide more information.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Pay the second instalment when we tell you to. We will send you an invoice for the instalment after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
You must pay the instalment or we can't grant the visa.
You can include your dependent child or stepchild in your visa application.
You can add family members to an application after you have lodged it. You cannot add them after we have decided on your application.
The application must include evidence of their relationship to you.
Members of your family must show they meet our:
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You need to provide an assurance of support when we ask you to.
Learn more about assurances of support.
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide on your application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
Keep a copy of our decision.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
See what to do if your situation changes.
Check your Resident Return visa expiry, visa conditions, work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
As a newly arrived resident, you may have to wait before you are able to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Further information is available on the Human Services website.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa until the travel validity expires.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity:
To see when your travel validity ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
With this visa, you become a permanent resident. This means you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.