1. Subclass 892
2. State or Territory Sponsored Business Owner visa
Permanent
From AUD2,890.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. This visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
A member of the family unit can include family members who hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit at the time their eligible visa was granted. This provision may apply even where the person would no longer meet the definition of members of the family unit, for example a child who has turned 23 years of age since their eligible visa was granted.
Members of the family unit who apply for the visa must meet our health and character. Family members not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health and character requirements.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD2,890.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each member of the family unit who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English and who does not hold an eligible visa when they apply. This charge is called the second instalment. This charge is only payable if you are requested to pay it and we send you an invoice.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
The Visa Pricing estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
7. Apply from
You must be in Australia when you submit your application. Members of your family unit can be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance.
You must hold an eligible visa to make a valid application for this visa.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by case basis and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
9. Your obligations
You, and members of your family unit, must follow all Australian laws.
We expect you to continue your business activity in Australia, or make a realistic commitment to doing so.
10. Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 and 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must currently hold an eligible visa. Eligible visa means:
You must have been in Australia as the holder of an eligible visa for a total of at least 1 year in the 2 years immediately before the application is made. The 1-year period does not have to be continuous.
For the 2 years immediately before you apply, you must have had, and continue to have, an ownership interest in one or more actively operating main businesses in Australia.
For each nominated main business you must provide evidence of:
If you spent more than 6 weeks in total outside Australia during the 2 years, you must explain how you managed the business while you were away.
Business Attributes
At the time you apply and throughout the 12 months immediately before you apply, you must show that you and/or your partner met at least 2 of the following requirements
Business Turnover
Business Practices
You must not have engaged in business activities that are generally unacceptable in Australia.
You must be sponsored by the regional authority in the state or territory where you conduct your business.
There is no age limit for this visa
You must meet our health requirement and any family members who apply with you might have to meet our health requirement, depending upon their circumstances. In some circumstances you will not have to do medicals again.
You should not do medicals until we ask you to do so.
New criteria description
You, and family aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you, must meet our character requirement.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the requirement.
All applicants who are 18 years of age or older, must:
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must get sponsorship from a regional authority in the state or territory. You also need to gather and prepare other documents.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Complete Form 949 State/Territory notification: Business Skills (219KB PDF) .
Send to the appropriate state or territory:
A representative of the state or territory authority will sign, stamp and send it back to you. You must include the completed form with your visa application.
You must give us documents proving your identity and about your business activities. You also need to provide documents about members of your family unit applying with you.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide two recent photos (45mm x 35mm) for each person in your application. The photos must have:
Where one of the following criteria requires you to provide evidence for a period that ends not more than 3 months immediately before the date of application you must use the same date for each requirement.
You must provide with your application a completed Form 1217 Business Skills profile: Business Owner (Residence) (180KB PDF).
Additionally, provide an overview of your business career in Australia. This should include a statement outlining your business activities.
Also give us a short summary of how you meet the business eligibility for the Business Owner visa. Your summary should be 2 pages or less and explain:
Your summary should also include information about assets, turnover and employees. The information should cover the 12 months before you apply. Please give us information about:
Provide a one-page organisational chart for each business claimed. The chart should cover the 2 years before you apply and show:
Also give us photos of business premises and business activities (maximum 6 photos).
You must provide with your application a completed Form 1217 Business Skills profile: Business Owner (Residence) (180KB PDF).
Additionally, provide an overview of your business career in Australia. This should include a statement outlining your business activities.
Also give us a short summary of how you meet the business eligibility for the Business Owner visa. Your summary should be 2 pages or less and explain:
Your summary should also include information about assets, turnover and employees. The information should cover the 12 months before you apply. Please give us information about:
To prove your legal ownership of the business, include all the items below that apply:
If you bought the business or businesses, provide documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
If you established the business or businesses, include documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
For the 2 years before you apply, please provide:
Please ensure that:
If you want to meet the employees' requirement you will need to provide evidence that shows you have employed 1 or more people over the 12 months before applying for the visa. Their employment must be equivalent to 1 full-time employee working at least 30 hours a week. Employees must have been paid at the federal minimum wage or Award rate .
Evidence of employees should include:
Also provide evidence that those employees are Australian citizens, permanent residents or New Zealand passport holders. Evidence can include:
Business assets
At the time you apply and throughout the 12 months immediately before you apply, you must show that you and/or your partner met at least 2 of the following requirements:
Business Turnover
Business Practices
You must not have engaged in business activities that are generally unacceptable in Australia.
To meet the business and personal assets requirement, provide evidence of combined business and personal assets in Australia equalling no less than AUD250,000 owned by you, your spouse or de facto partner. These can be held together or separately throughout the 12 months ending immediately before you apply for this visa.
Use the same 2 dates for calculating both net personal assets and business assets that you used for the business assets requirement.
Please provide a 1-page summary statement outlining all your assets and liabilities. Liabilities can include mortgages, credit cards, and loans (including unsecured and third party loans).
Note: Please note that if claims are not proven by the audited financial statements, or with other evidence recommended above, they may not be accepted. A decision on the visa application may be made without requesting additional documents or information.
Please provide evidence that the net value of the business assets was AUD75,000 at the beginning and end of a 12-month period ending no more than 3 months before application:
The following evidence is required:
Include supporting information such as:
Cash assets
Bank statements or similar documents showing:
account holders names and
the account balances at the same 2 points in time at the beginning and end of 12-month period ending no more than 3 months before you apply
trade debtor’s listings with evidence of repayment
Plant and equipment
Provide:
evidence of purchase
evidence of current registration(for vehicles)
depreciation schedules
Director’s loans
Bank statements or similar documents showing
withdrawal of amounts from personal accounts
deposit of loan amounts in business account
loan agreement
general ledger for the loan
Real estate assets
Provide:
evidence of ownership, such as title deeds
evidence of value, such as a valuation certificate by an accredited property valuer or a contract of sale
mortgage statements (if applicable) showing balance of amount owed
Note: We do not accept valuations by real estate agents who are not accredited property valuers.
Goodwill
Goodwill may be included as an asset for Business Skills purposes, but only if:
The goodwill has been purchased.  The goodwill component must appear in the balance sheet of the business as an asset arising from the purchase of the business; and be valued at no more than the original value paid; or
The goodwill has been built up over a period of time and realised with the sale of the business.
Provide a certified copy of the original purchasing agreement for the business and a copy of the associated Stamp Duty Assessment.
Cash assets
Bank statements or similar documents showing:
Real estate assets
Provide:
Personal loans
Please provide:
Stocks and bonds
Give us evidence of the stocks or bonds you hold and their value. Evidence can include:
Assets held in trust
Provide a copy of the trust deed
Other personal assets
For other personal assets such as antiques or motor vehicles, give us evidence of ownership and value. This can include a valuation certificate by an accredited valuer.
You must prove that you:
Evidence may include
If you spent more than 6 weeks overseas during the 2-year period, you must tell us how you managed the business during this period.
It is important that you provide all documents and evidence that best supports your claims as processing may be delayed when excessive inconsequential documents are provided.
The evidence provided must directly link your management to that of the claimed business and must support activity over the specified period, including periods when you may have been absent from Australia. General correspondence etc., addressed to the company with no reference to you may not be sufficient to demonstrate this requirement.
For each person in your application, provide an Australian police certificate if they have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since they turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Please provide evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
If your partner is a person who was not included in or a subsequent entrant to your provisional visa application, please also provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant of that visa, this section does not apply.
To include in your visa application your child who is over 18 and doesn't hold an eligible visa, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence in relation to the second dot point above.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
This information applies to dependent family members who are 18 years or older and who do not hold an eligible visa at the time of application for this visa.
You don't have to provide any documents to prove functional English if your dependant is a citizen of and holds a valid passport from:
Otherwise, provide proof your dependant has functional English.
If you can't show us your dependant has functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must be in Australia when we receive your application. Members of your family unit can be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
To apply for this visa, you need to pay the application fee before you submit your application. We will not process your application until you pay the fee. Form 47BU tells you how to calculate and pay the fee.
Your application should also include evidence of payment of the application fee and all the relevant supporting documentation.
You must post (with the correct prepaid postage) or send by courier your application to the Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre. If you submit your application at any other office or in any other way, it will not be a valid application and can't be considered further.
Postal address
Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
Department of Immigration and Border Protection
GPO Box 2399
Adelaide SA 5001
Australia
Courier address
Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
Department of Immigration and Border Protection
Level 4
70 Franklin Street
Adelaide SA 5001
Australia
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and what you must do after you apply.
We  do not give updates on applications under assessment.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. However, to be granted this visa you must be in Australia when we make a decision. If your family are part of the application they can be in or outside Australia when we make a decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
We will let you know if you need health examinations
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them to us by courier or post as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
Make sure you stay lawful in Australia by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa, you will be considered for the automatic grant of a Bridging Visa A (BVA). If you are granted a BVA, it will come into effect when your current visa expires and enable you to stay lawfully in Australia while we process your application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled :
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can't add family to your application after you have submitted it.
Newborn children
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible. Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and send to the address you sent your application.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
You must be inside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing. If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
Your visa may have conditions. To see your conditions use VEVO.
You and members of your family unit must obey all Australian laws.
We expect you to continue your business activity in Australia, or make a realistic commitment to doing so.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is change in your situation.
his is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
You can travel in and out of  Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclasses 155 and 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for permanent citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check the travel component of your current visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.