1. (Subclass 143)
2. Contributory Parent visa
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Permanently
AUD48,495
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
For more information, see Parent visa queue.
​
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa you can
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
You can apply for the subclass 143 visa as a two-step process by first applying for a Contributory Parent (Temporary) (subclass 173) visa. Applying for the subclass 173 visa and then the subclass 143 visa allows you to spread the cost of the visas over a number of years.
You have already met the balance of family test.
If you apply for the subclass 143 visa as a retiree you don't have to:
6. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
7. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
You are required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa as a retiree, you:
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
8. Cost
This visa costs AUD48,495. There is also an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts, called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to. See more about visa fees and charges.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
9. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.
If you apply in Australia, any family members who apply with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply. If you apply outside Australia, any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be outside Australia when you apply.
If you are applying as a retiree you must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply. You can be in or outside Australia when we make a decision on your application
10. Processing times
The demand for these visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages:
Do not arrange to stay permanently in Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Other Parent visas available include the:
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
11. Assessment
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages.
Don't arrange to move to Australia until we grant the visa. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
12. Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the date specified in your grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
You can apply for a Parent visa (subclass 143) as a retiree if:
If you apply for this visa as a retiree:
You must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor for this visa.
Usually you would be sponsored by an eligible child. If your child is under 18, you can be sponsored by an eligible relative or community organisation.
We must approve the sponsorship.
If you apply for this visa as a retiree you don't need a sponsor.
If you hold a Temporary Contributory Parent (subclass 173) visa, you might still be eligible for this visa if your sponsor dies.
See what to do if your situation changes.
You must meet the balance-of-family test. You meet the balance of family test if:
See examples of how the balance-of-family test is applied.
If you apply for this visa as a retiree you don't need to meet the balance of family test.
If you hold a Contributory Parent (subclass 173) (Temporary) visa, you have already met the balance of family test.
You must be able to obtain an assurance of support.
An assurance of support assures us that you will not have to rely on government assistance after you enter Australia on this visa. The assurance is for you and any family members who come to Australia with you on this visa.
We will let you know when you need to provide the assurance of support.
You must be able to obtain an assurance of support, unless you apply for the visa as a retiree.
If you apply for the visa as a retiree, you do not need an assurance of support.
Learn more about assurances of support.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
​If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you apply for this visa as a retiree, you must maintain adequate health insurance until you are granted a Parent visa. Your insurance should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See a guide to what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
We will not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check your passport. If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
You and anyone who applies with you must have valid passports before we grant the visa.
We will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
If you applied for a different parent visa, but we have not made a decision about that visa, you must withdraw that application at the same time that you apply for this visa.
If you applied for a Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173) or a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 884) you need to complete:
If you applied for a Parent visa (subclass 103) or Aged Parent visa (subclass 804), you need to complete:
New step description
Gather all your documents, including for any partner or dependants who might be applying with you. You will also need your sponsor documents.
You won't need to provide us with some of the documents we usually ask for if:
You will still need to provide documents:
Changes in your situation we need evidence of include:
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Your application must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor, unless you are applying as a retiree.
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia (469KB PDF).
Show us that you meet the balance-of-family test by giving us:
You do not need to meet the balance of family test if you are applying as a retiree.
If you hold a Contributory Parent (subclass 173) visa, you have already met the balance of family test.
We might ask you for character documents, including police certificates. Don't arrange a police check until we ask you to.
Learn more about police certificates.
Provide us with an assurance of support when we ask for it.
You don't need to provide an assurance of support if you are applying as a retiree.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
If you are applying as a retiree you can't include your children, or your partner's children, in your application.
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To be included in your visa application as a dependent child, your child must be:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
If you are applying as a retiree you can't include your children, or your partner's children, in your application.
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
For partners, provide identity documents and relationship documents.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
Provide 4 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) of anyone included in the application.
Photographs must be:
You can wear untinted prescription glasses. If you wear a head covering for religious reasons, you can show only your face.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia should be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have all other documents as a certified copy. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper. You can apply from in (but not in immigration clearance) or outside Australia, when you submit your application.
Learn more about where you can be when we make a decision on your application by reading the “Visa Outcome” section on this web page. (Below)
If you are applying as a retiree you must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you submit your application. You can be in or outside Australia when we make our decision.
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
If your subclass 173 visa is current or has ended within the last 28 days, complete Form 47PT Application for migration to Australia by a Contributory Parent (Temporary) or Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa holder. (628KB PDF)
If you do not hold (or have never held) a subclass 173 visa, you must complete Form 47PA Application for a parent to migrate to Australia. (715KB PDF).
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia. (469KB PDF)
Whether migrating or not, each member of the family unit aged 18 years or over must also complete Form 47A Details of child or other dependent family member aged 18 years or over. (307KB PDF)
You must complete all forms in English.
You must pay the first instalment when you apply. For payment options see how to pay.
You can't apply for this visa in person. Send your application by post or courier to the address on the form. Include all required documents, forms and evidence of payment of application charge with your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. There may be other things you need to know and might have to do.
If you applied in Australia, you were granted a bridging visa when you lodged your application if:
The bridging visa will come into effect only if your current visa expires. A bridging visa lets you stay in Australia while your subclass 143 visa application is processed.
We can't provide updates on your application's progress within normal processing times. We will let you know if you need to provide anything further.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
If you hold a visa that lets you be in Australia when we make a decision on your visa application, you do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Do not make arrangements to move to Australia permanently until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
You must have health exams if you don't hold a Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173).
You might need to have health exams if:
The doctor will send us your health documents. Don't arrange health exams until we ask you to.
Learn more about health exams.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
Send any documents you did not provide with your application to the Parent Visa Centre in Perth.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia and your current temporary visa is about to expire, you should make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. Learn about visa expiry.
You must pay the second instalment before we will grant the visa. We will send you an invoice when it is due. If you do not pay the invoice, we will refuse your application.
You might be able to add family members to your application before we make a decision.
Complete and send us Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF).
You will also need to provide evidence of your relationship and the family member’s passport.
If you applied in Australia, any family member you add to your application must also be in Australia when you add them. If you applied outside Australia, any family members you add to the application must also be outside Australia when you add them.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
If you applied as a retiree, or you hold or held a Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173), or a substituted Visitor visa (subclass 600) before lodging your application, you may be in or outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you must be outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant you the visa, we will let you know:
We recommend you keep a copy of our decision.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have:
You must enter Australia before the date specified in your grant letter.
If your visa is still valid and the date specified in your visa grant letter has passed or will pass before you can travel to Australia, you must ensure that:
We may then send you a travel facilitation letter. This will state that we allow you to enter Australia after the first entry arrival date on your visa.
We will not issue a travel facilitation letter unless there is less than 3 months remaining on your first entry arrival date.
All people arriving into Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You can check visa details and conditions in VEVO.
See what to do if your situation changes.
See your visa expiry, conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely as a permanent resident.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
As a newly arrived resident you might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived residents' waiting periods from Services Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
With this visa you become a permanent resident. This means you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, become a permanent resident at a particular time:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.