1. Subclass 200, 201, 203 and 204
2. Refugee category visas
Permanently
There is no visa application charge for this visa
The decision process could take many months, or even years. The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas.
See all conditions for:
We usually grant this visa to people referred to us by United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for resettlement in Australia.
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident when you enter Australia.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day you enter Australia on this visa.
5. Include family
You can also add certain family members to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
For this visa, your family are:
If your child is not dependent on you, they must apply for their own visa.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
It is important to declare all of your family members, even if they will not be applying with you.
If you do not declare a family member in your application, you may not be able to propose them for a Humanitarian visa after you arrive in Australia.
6. Cost
There is no visa application charge for this visa
7. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply. You must also be outside Australia when your visa is granted.
8. Processing times
We generally acknowledge Humanitarian visa applications in writing. Processing times can vary according to the applicant’s:
The decision process takes many months, even years. The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas.
Your application can take longer to process if:
Processing times also vary according to individual and family circumstances, such as health conditions that might require testing or treatment.
We will contact you at key stages of processing and when a decision is made.
The Australian Government has established policy to guide decisions on which applications ought generally to be given priority. This policy includes those who are outside their home country and are one of following:
Because of the limited number of resettlement places available each year and the high demand for them, we accept applicants in the most compelling circumstances only.
9. Assisted Passage
The Assisted Passage program supports the delivery of Australia’s Offshore Humanitarian Program and provides health screening, travel and medical related services to refugee category visa applicants and visa holders.
The Assisted Passage service has now transitioned from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to Toll Transport Pty Ltd (Toll) effective 30 September 2024. IOM will continue to provide Assisted Passage services for Cox’s Bazar.
Toll will assist you to attend health appointments and, if you are granted a visa, assist you to travel to Australia.
10. Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
If you signed a health undertaking, you must comply with it.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
11. Travel
Your travel to Australia will be arranged by the Department at no cost to you. If the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter has passed, we may issue you with a travel facilitation letter. We may first ask you to undergo a fresh medical examination.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
12. Additional information
The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas.
There are four visa subclasses included in the Refugee category of the Humanitarian Program. They are:
We will consider your application against each subclass.
You can find more information at Refugee visas (offshore).
You can't apply for this visa in Australia.
You need resettlement because you face persecution in your home country.
You can work on this visa.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who do not apply with you might also have to meet our health requirement.
If you have compassionate and compelling circumstances, we might waive your health requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who do not apply with you might also have to meet our character requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you sign or accept the Australian Values Statement.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
Check that you are eligible.
If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you can't provide these items, provide a statement explaining why you have no travel or identity documents.
Please provide proof if you have registered with any international organisation dealing with refugees, such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
If you have been referred for resettlement by the UNHCR, provide a full copy of your resettlement registration form.
Also write a statement, in English, about why you left your home country.
Provide certified copies of any visas or residence permits you hold.
Provide certified copies of marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone else included in your application, even if they are not joining you in Australia.
Provide 2 recent photographs (45mm x 35mm).
The photographs should be of the head and shoulders only against a plain background.
Print your name on the back of each photograph.
Provide military service records or discharge papers if you served in the armed forces of any country.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
Unless you have a court order you must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
If the child is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
For every dependant aged 18 years or older who is applying with you, provide:
You must demonstrate financial, physical or psychological dependence.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Have all documents certified. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
Apply on paper by post.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Apply with Form 842 Application for an Offshore Humanitarian Visa (828KB PDF)
Send your application to an immigration office outside Australia.
Submit your visa applications and supporting documents together.
This helps give us a clear idea of everyone that is applying for a visa.
In your application, you must list all family members who are also applying for their own visa.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
We will advise you if you are required to undertake a medical examination and or have your biometrics collected. Toll, the Department’s Assisted Passage service provider, will assist you with these requirements. If you are requested to undertake these requirements, further information can be found in the letters below.
We can’t give updates on applications.
Wait for us to contact you. Ensure you keep us up to date with contact details and changes in circumstances.
Do not arrange travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied send them to the office where you sent the application, quoting the file number we have given you.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
We might ask you to attend an interview. You must bring your passport or other identification and any other requested documents. You might be asked about:
If we receive information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment.
In some circumstances you can add certain family members to your application before we decide on your application.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF).
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision by email or letter.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
To find out about Australian history, culture, society and values, read the Life in Australia booklet.
You must arrive in Australia by the date specified in the letter we sent you when we granted your visa.
You can get help from the following organisations and programs:
This 5-day program is free and open to all humanitarian visa holders over the age of 5. It is delivered overseas, to give you an understanding of life in Australia before you arrive.
Read more about the AUSCO program.
This service will contact you when your visa is approved. It is free and runs across Australia. The focus is on helping you to learn English and to gain education or work skills.
Read more about the Humanitarian Settlement Program.
You, and any family members travelling with you on the visa, may be required to have a health check in the 72 hours before you leave for Australia.
The Australian Government will cover the cost of your health check.
The departure health check includes:
You must agree to follow up on any health conditions after you arrive in Australia.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on board.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) to re-enter Australia. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
To obtain evidence you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
With this visa, you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. For more information on your workplace rights and entitlements see Visa holders and migrant workers.
If you are in Australia, you may be eligible for a free, fast-tracked skills assessment if you have skills in a priority occupation. For more information see Migrant Skills Incentives.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
You can also propose a family member for a Subclass 202 Global Special Humanitarian visa
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming an Australian citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day you entered Australia on this visa.
You must have a valid travel document to leave Australia. Check your VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.