1. Subclass 192
2. Pacific Engagement visa
Permanently in Australia.
From AUD325.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
The Australian Government is providing a free service to connect you with employers in Australia to help you meet the job requirement for the visa and prepare for life in Australia. You can find more information at The Pacific Engagement visa Support Service.
3. With this visa you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on either the day:
5. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant you this visa. This is as long as the travel facility remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility, you must apply for and be granted a Resident Return visa so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
See when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
For more information, see Overseas travel as a permanent resident.
You might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don’t need a visa to enter Australia. Once you are an Australian citizen you can apply for an Australian passport. You can travel to and from Australia on your Australian passport. For more information, see Australian Citizenship.
6. Include family
You must include all members of the family unit who wish to come to Australia with you in your application. You will not be able to add them to your application after you have submitted your application.
Where you have included a non-biological child a member of the family unit due to adoption, you need to provide further supporting evidence.
Generally, adoptions are either formal or customary. In a formal adoption, the child who is adopted becomes the legal child of the adopting parents and a legal member of the adopting family.
Customary adoptions are generally not recognised in Australia. Australia recognises adoptions which formally establish parental rights and responsibilities. These adoptions must comply with specific legal requirements to be recognised under Australian migration law.
For visa purposes, members of the family unit do not include your parents or partners parents, aunts, uncles, or cousins.
Family members who apply for this visa must meet our health and character requirements. They must have also complied with the conditions of any previous visas held. Family members not coming to Australia might also need to meet health and character requirements.
7. Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
8. Cost
From AUD325.00, for the main applicant.
From AUD80.00, for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Your application will be invalid if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
To work out what your visa will cost, you can use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account other costs, such as health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
9. Apply from
You can be inside or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
10. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis. Actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
11. Visa label
We will electronically link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You can only apply for this visa if you have been randomly selected in the PEV ballot. If we have invited you to apply, you will have received a Notification of Ballot Selection letter.
The letter provides a link to the visa application and details on how to apply for this visa.
You have 120 days from the date of selection to complete and submit a visa application online. You must apply for this visa on or before the date specified in your Notification of Ballot Selection letter. We cannot accept your application if you try to apply after this date.
You can monitor the status of your ballot registration through your ImmiAccount.
The status of each ballot will be published on the PEV Country Ballot Status table. After the ballot selection process is shown as expired, no further registrations will be selected.
You must be a citizen of and hold a valid passport from one of these participating countries:
You must apply for this visa as a citizen of the same country you declared in your ballot registration.
You must have been born in, or have a parent that was born in one of these countries:
* Some eligible citizens may have been born outside of their country of citizenship to access alternative medical facilities. We have included Australia and New Zealand in this list to recognise this.
You must not be a citizen of New Zealand.
New Zealand citizens who have been living in Australia for four years or more might be eligible to apply directly for Australian citizenship.
For more information, see Pathways for New Zealand citizens.
You must be aged between 18 to 45 years (inclusive) on the date the ballot registration period opens for your country.
If you are 45 years of age at the time the ballot opens and turn 46 years of age during the application process, you will still meet the age requirement.
To check when the registration opens for individual countries see PEV Country Ballot Status.
You may be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for this visa.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold a:
You, or your spouse or de facto partner included in your application, must have an offer of employment in Australia.
For this visa you must show us that you have adequate means to support yourself and your family members in Australia.
An offer of employment can be permanent full-time, permanent part-time or a fixed-term contract (for example, a contract for 12 months). Your fixed-term contract must have the same work entitlements as a permanent full-time or a permanent part-time employee.
Casual contracts are not considered ongoing employment.
The employment offer must include:
The Australian Government is providing a free service to connect you with employers in Australia to help you meet the job requirement for the visa and prepare for life in Australia. You can find more information at The Pacific Engagement visa Support Service.
All people working in Australia have the same basic workplace rights and protections, regardless of citizenship or visa status. If the department is aware of adverse information about an Australian organisation it may affect their suitability as an employer.
For information on:
You must have adequate means to support yourself and your family members included in your application while you are in Australia.
This will show us that you and your family members can manage a change in lifestyle and meet basic living costs in Australia.
There is no financial threshold applied to ‘adequate means’. These costs will vary significantly based on individual circumstances, including the size and composition of your family and the location of where you live in Australia.
We may need you to show that you have access to adequate means of financial support for yourself and your family in the first 12 months in Australia.
Your offer of employment counts as evidence to show you can support yourself and your family members in Australia.
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
You, or your spouse or de facto partner included in your visa application, must show that you have a certain level of English language proficiency. This is to support a positive settlement in Australia.
You will meet the English language proficiency if you, or your spouse or de facto partner:
This table shows suitable English language test providers. It also states the minimum overall band scores you must achieve.
Test
Required results
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
Score of at least 5.0 for each of the listening and speaking test components of the test.
Occupational English Test (OET)
Score of at least ‘B’ for each of the listening and speaking test components of the test.
Test of English as a Foreign Language internet-based Test (TOEFL iBT)
Score of at least 4 for the listening component of the test; and
Score of at least 14 for the speaking component of the test.
Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic)
Score of at least 36 for each of the listening and speaking components of the test.
Cambridge C1 Advanced test
Score of at least 154 for each of the listening and speaking components of the test.
If you, or your spouse or de facto partner, cannot show you meet the required level of English, you can complete a PEV English Language Undertaking. The PEV English Language Undertaking is an agreement that you make with the Australian Government to participate in the Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP) to improve your English language skills, if eligible, after you arrive in Australia.
The AMEP is a free service to help eligible migrants improve their English language skills and settle into Australia.
If you agree to enrol in AMEP when you arrive in Australia, you must read and complete the Pacific Engagement Visa (PEV) English Language Undertaking form and attach it to your visa application.
For more information about the program, see Adult Migrant English Program.
If you cannot meet the English Language proficiency level through the options provided, we might ask you to complete an English language test. You will need to achieve the required test score to demonstrate your English language ability.
You and any included family members, must have substantially complied with any conditions that apply or applied to a held Australian substantive visa or bridging visa. If you were unable to substantially comply, there must have been compassionate and compelling circumstances.
We will consider the immigration history of you, and any included family members, when we decide on your application. This means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some situations, you might still be able to apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused. For more information, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You, and any family members who apply for the visa with you, must meet our health requirement.
Family members not included in the visa application might also need to meet the health requirement.
You should not organise your health examinations until after you are successful in the ballot and invited to apply for the visa.
The results of health examinations are generally valid for 12 months.
You must meet our character requirement. This also applies for family members aged 17 years and over who apply for the visa with you.
Family members not included in the visa application might also need to meet the character requirement.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must pay it back or have arranged to pay it back. This includes family members who did not apply for the visa with you.
You, and any family members aged 18 years or older in your visa application, must have:
We will not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
You can only apply for this visa if:
You must lodge a valid visa application on or before the expiry date specified in your Notification of Registration Selection letter.
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents to submit an application for this visa.
You can complete your health examinations before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them. The results of health examinations are generally valid for 12 months.
Find out more about the examinations you might need.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be either:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter. We call this person your authorised recipient
The Australian Government is providing a free service to connect you with employers in to help you meet the job requirement for the visa and prepare for life in Australia. You can find more information at The Pacific Engagement visa Support Service.
Meeting the job requirement does not guarantee you will be granted this visa. To be granted this visa, you need to meet the other eligibility criteria.
Before you apply for your visa, gather and prepare your documents.
You will need to provide identity, character and other documents. You will also need to provide documents for your partner and any dependent children included in your application.
You must provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You must provide evidence that you or your partner included in your application has an offer of employment in Australia.
This must be a written job offer or employment contract for ongoing employment in Australia that includes:
It may take time to arrange employment in Australia. If you are unable to provide this information at the time of submitting your application, you must provide it as soon as you can after you submit your application.
You may be required to demonstrate that you have access to adequate means of financial support for your first 12 months in Australia.
This may include:
You must provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
You must also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Documents that prove that you or your parent was born in a participating country include:
For more information, go to Eligibility.
.
You must provide proof if you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated. Documents that prove this include:
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us why. For example, they may already hold Australian citizenship or be a permanent resident.
You must provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
You must also provide an overseas police certificate from every country where you spent a total of 12 months or more in the last 10 years since you turned 16. This includes your home country. For information for each country, go to our
If you have served in the armed forces of any country, you must provide military service records or discharge papers.
Learn more about police certificates.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
You must provide:
For de facto relationships, provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants, you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who both:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us either:
You must include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, you must provide:
Where a non-biological child is included as a member of the family unit due to adoption, further supporting evidence is required. Adoption can be either formal or customary.
In a formal adoption, the child who is adopted becomes the legal child of the adopting parents and a legal member of the adopting family.
Customary adoptions are generally not recognised in Australia. Australia recognises adoptions which formally establish parental rights and responsibilities. These adoptions must comply with specific legal requirements to be recognised under Australian migration law.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit.
You must provide:
You must provide evidence that you, or your spouse or de facto spouse meet the English language proficiency for the PEV.
Evidence of English language proficiency may include:
You can still apply for this visa if you or your spouse or de facto partner do not currently meet the above English language proficiency requirements. However, you will need to undertake to enrol in the Adult English Migration Program (AMEP) when you arrive in Australia.
To undertake to enrol in AMEP when you arrive in Australia, you must attach the Pacific Engagement Visa (PEV) English Language Undertaking form to your application.
For more information, go to Eligibility.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
You must have all non-English documents translated into English.
You must provide both the original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited but on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
You can only apply for this visa if you have been randomly selected in the PEV ballot. If we have invited you to apply, you will have received a Notification of Ballot Selection letter.
The letter provides a link to the visa application and details on how to apply for this visa.
You have 120 days from the date of selection to complete and submit a visa application online. You must apply for this visa on or before the date specified in your Notification of Ballot Selection letter. We cannot accept your application if you try to apply after this date.
You can be inside or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for this visa.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We do not give updates on applications under assessment. We will let you know if you need to provide any further information.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
You might not need to have all the health examinations again if you had any in the last 12 months. We will let you know if you need to complete health examinations.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
We might ask you for biometrics. This includes things like your fingerprints or a photo. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might ask you to provide more information. However, we do not have to do so and we may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
If you apply for this visa in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you apply for this visa in Australia, you may be automatically granted a bridging visa (BV). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BV will come into effect. We will notify you of the grant of your BV. You can stay in Australia on the BV while we process your new visa application.
For more information, go to:
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you have a child after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF). Then, attach the completed form in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information, see Who can help you with your application.
You must let us know if things change after you have applied but before we make a decision. Changes you must notify us of include:
Removing your application from ImmiAccount does not withdraw it.
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be inside or outside Australia when we decide your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse you the visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
The Australian Government’s free support service will provide information sessions in your country that provide:
You can find more information at The Pacific Engagement visa Support Service.
You must have:
Your first entry to Australia must be on or before the date provided in your visa grant notification letter. The first entry date is generally 12 months from the date of visa grant.
If you do not enter Australia before this date, your visa will cease. You will no longer be allowed to travel to Australia as the holder of a permanent resident visa.
All people arriving into Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
When you have this visa, you can:
For more information about travelling on this visa, see Overseas travel as a permanent resident.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You can check visa details and conditions in VEVO.
See what to do if your situation changes.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
As a newly arrived resident, you might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived resident’s waiting periods from Services Australia.
You are entitled to a range of settlement support services that will help you and your family have a positive experience settling into Australia. These include:
The SETS program gives settlement-related information and assistance, and referral to relevant services.
As a permanent resident, you will have access to certain Australian Government benefits, including:
As a PEV holder, you will have access to additional supports to help with the cost of education, training and raising a family in Australia. These include:
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After the initial 5 years, to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157).
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain amount of time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on either the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
Check the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia, you can request a copy of your international movement records.
Return to Pacific Engagement landing page