State/Territory Sponsored Regional Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 846)
The State/Territory Sponsored Regional Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 846) closed to new applications on 1 July 2012. Information on other business visas is available through the SkillSelect website.
If you have applied for this visa but no visa decision has yet been made, you can add your spouse, de facto partner or dependent children to your application until the visa is decided.
You must be in Australia when the visa is decided.

1. Visa applicants
This information is for people who have already applied for an State/Territory Sponsored Regional Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 846), but are waiting for a decision.
You can add members of the family unit to your visa application at any time until your visa is decided.
For detailed information regarding who you can include in your application see including family members in your application.
To add dependent children, complete:
Your family members can be added to your application by completing:
These family members must meet the requirements for including family members in your application. The application must include documentary evidence of their relationship to you.​​
Your family members must be able to show that they meet health and character requirements.​
They might also need to take the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) test to show how well they speak, ready and write English.
You must meet certain health requirements. However, most applicants for this visa will not be required to complete additional health examinations. Do not arrange a health examination until we ask you to.
You must meet certain character requirements. You must provide a police certificate from each country you have lived in for 12 months or more during the past 10 years after you turned 16 years of age.
You must have no outstanding debts to the Australian Government or have arranged to repay any outstanding debts to the Australian Government before this visa can be granted.
Lodge the completed forms and documents in person or by registered post, courier or fax to the Adelaide office in South Australia - attention Client Services, Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre.
Include the documents listed in the Document checklist with the application and pay the visa application charge by credit card, money order or bank cheque.
After you have lodged your application and documents, we will acknowledge that we have received your information.
If you apply for this visa in Australia, you would be able to get a Bridging visa that allows you to stay in the country lawfully while your application is processed. If you are given a Bridging visa A, you can apply for Bridging visa B to travel outside Australia while you wait for a decision.
You can provide more information to us, at any time until a decision is made on the application. If you want to correct information you provided, use:
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If another person gives us information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
You might also be interviewed. If you are asked to attend an interview in person, bring your passport or other identification and any requested documents to the interview.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount. If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.​​
You must contact your case officer to report any changes in circumstances that could affect the processing of your application.
When you write to the department, you must include:
Providing all this information helps the department quickly locate your application.
You can withdraw the application at any time before we make a decision about it. To do this, send us a letter or email to ask for the withdrawal. Your request must include your full name and date of birth. You should also include your file reference number, client ID, or a Transaction Reference Number.
​​​All applicants 18 years of age or older, wishing to withdraw, must sign the request for withdrawal.​​​​​​
If the visa is granted, we will let you know:
If the visa is not granted, we will let you know:
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. We can make a decision using the information you provide when you lodge your application. It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible with your application.
Provide certified copies of original documents. Do not include original documents unless we specifically ask for them. Police certificates should be original documents. Documents not in English must be accompanied by accredited English translations.
Use this checklist to make sure your application is complete.
If you use Form 1229 or a statutory declaration, you will have to attach a certified copy of the other parent’s government-issued identification document (such as a passport or driver's licence) with their photograph and signature.
Provide the original certificates and keep a copy for yourself.
2. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a State/Territory Sponsored Regional Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 846). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
This visa lets you work in your established business in Australia.
This is a permanent residence visa. It lets you and any member of your family unit who has also been granted this visa:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must:
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.