1. Subclass 988
2. Maritime Crew visa
You can stay in Australia as long as you are a crew member of a Maritime Crew Visa (MCV) eligible ship that is in Australia.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
Check your Maritime visa status
3. With this visa you can
With this visa you cannot:
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
4. Which ships you can work on in Australia
Ships that do meet the eligibility for a Maritime Crew Visa include:
Ships that are not eligible include:
5. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply. You can be inside or outside Australia when your visa is decided.
You must not travel to Australia without a visa.
6. How long you can stay
Maritime Crew visas last for three years unless they are ceased for one of the following reasons:
While the visa is valid you can enter Australia by sea as a member of a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship as many times as you want.
If you want to enter Australia by air to join a ship, and you hold a Maritime Crew visa, you will need another visa to enter.
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
7. Stay longer
You cannot apply for a new Maritime Crew visa while you are in Australia. You must apply for another visa. You need to do this before your current visa ceases.
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
8. Include family
Members of the family unit can apply for Maritime Crew visas if they are travelling on the same ship as you with permission from the vessel master. They must lodge separate application forms.
The Maritime Crew visa held by members of your family unit will cease if:
Family members are not permitted to work in Australia on a Maritime Crew visa.
9. Travel
You can enter Australia by sea as a member of a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
You cannot fly into Australia only holding a Maritime Crew visa.
10. Cost
Free
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
12. Your obligations
You and members of your family unit must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
13. Health insurance
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be outside Australia when you apply for this visa.
You must be an articled crew member on a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship that is taking an international voyage to Australia.
This includes:
It does not include those who only work on a ship while it is in port or dry dock unless they are travelling with the ship.
To be eligible for crew to enter Australia on a Maritime Crew visa, the ship must meet one of the following activities:
Examples of the types of ships that are not eligible for Maritime Crew visa holders to enter Australia on are:
You must meet our character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
You might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused while you were in Australia. Check if visa cancellation affects your eligibility.
See if you hold a Maritime Crew visa that is still valid with the Maritime Crew visa online status enquiry page.
Ensure you apply for the visa well ahead of your travel. We may require further information from you and time to assess that information.
Do not travel to Australia without a valid visa.
Ensure that you enter Australia on a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship, which is a ship that:
Examples of the types of ships that are not eligible for Maritime Crew visa holders to enter Australia on are:
If you plan to get a new passport, you should do so before applying for your visa. Your visa is linked to the passport number you use in your application.
You and your family members need valid passports before we will grant this visa.
A seafarer's identity document is not acceptable with the exception of Chinese, Russian and Vietnamese seafarer passports. If you hold both a seafarer's passport and a national passport, you should apply using your national passport.
To find an appropriate other visa, use the Visa finder.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will be able to check ImmiAccount for what documents we need from you before you submit your application.
You should submit the required identity, employment and education/qualification documentation with your application in ImmiAccount. If you do not provide these documents at time of your application, the decision may be delayed.
If you are applying as a partner or dependant of a crew member, we need you to submit identity documents and other documents to prove you are a family member.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide:
A seafarer's identity document is not acceptable with the exception of Chinese, Russian and Vietnamese seafarer passports. If you hold both a seafarer's passport and a national passport, you should apply and provide evidence of your national passport.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
We will tell you if and when you need to get police certificates.
Provide any military service record or discharge papers, if applicable.
Provide:
Provide evidence of your highest recognised qualification that relates to your employment as a crew member.
This should be a copy of an educational certificate such as a Degree or Diploma.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, you must get consent from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
If the child is not staying with a relative or legal guardian while in Australia, provide Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have a certified copy of all other documents. This includes:
Keep a copy of your application.
Send us:
You must be outside Australia when you apply. You can be inside or outside Australia when your visa is decided.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You must complete an application for each person travelling to Australia, including children. Each person holds their own visa.
If you can't apply online, complete the following form:
Send the completed form by post, courier or fax to the address specified on the form. Mark the envelope 'Attention: Maritime Global Processing Centre'.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
If you applied online, you can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
Wait for us to contact you if you applied on paper.
We might also ask you to provide more information.  If we need more information from you we will let you know by messaging you through ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you are in Australia and your visa is cancelled, you could become unlawful in Australia.
Learn more about visa expiry.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send to the office where you submitted your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
You must have:
A seafarer's identity document is not acceptable. If you hold both a seafarer's passport and a national passport, you should use your national passport.
When you hold this visa:
To find an appropriate other visa, use the Visa finder.
You must follow all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You cannot apply for a Maritime Crew visa while you are in Australia.
You must hold a valid visa for the whole time that you are in Australia. If a change in plans means that you will not be able to leave Australia until after your current visa expires, you should apply for another visa before your visa expires.
Explore your visa options
If you cannot leave Australia within 5 days of signing off your ship, a small extension can be given in limited circumstances. It is important that you contact us while your Maritime Crew visa is still valid to ask for an extension.
See your visa expiry, conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Maritime Crew visa holders can only work as the crew member of a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
For information on your workplace rights and entitlements, see the Australian Maritime Safety Authority's regulations and standards.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records.