1. Subclass 790
2. Safe Haven Enterprise visa (Subclass 790) (Subclass 790)
5 years
AUD45.00
Processing times for this visa are unavailable.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. It lets you stay in Australia for 5 years.
5. Stay longer
If we grant you this visa on or after 14 February 2023, you must apply for subsequent Safe Haven Enterprise visa (SHEV) or a Temporary Protection visa (TPV) before your current SHEV expires, if you still need Australia's protection and are not subject to any application bars.
SHEV and TPV holders and former holders who arrived in Australia before 14 February 2023 may be eligible to apply for a permanent Resolution of Status (RoS) visa (subclass 851).
You may also be able to apply for certain other visas in Australia, including permanent visas such as skilled and family visas (but not a permanent Protection visa) if you meet the Safe Haven Enterprise visa pathway requirements and the specific requirements to apply for any particular visa.
6. Apply from
You, and any members of your family unit included in your application, must be in Australia when you apply for this visa.
7. Including family members
Members of the same family unit may apply together on the same application. They must:
Members of the same family unit are:
The family head can be you. It can also be someone else in your family who has not applied for this visa.
A dependent child is a child or step-child who is under 18 years old. A dependent child can be 18 years old or older if they are:
A child or step-child of any age is not considered to be a dependent child if they are currently married, engaged to be married or in a de facto relationship.
Children who are not dependent children must apply for their own visa.
Other dependent relatives may include relatives such as the family head’s:
A relative will be considered a dependent relative of the family head if they:
Members of the same family unit applying for this visa must meet our health, character and security requirements.
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision on your application, the child will be taken to be included in that application. You must tell us as soon as possible by:
If your child is born in Australia, they are automatically granted the same visas their parents hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child may be an Australian citizen by birth See the requirements for evidence of Australian citizenship.
8. Processing times
We aim to finalise SHEV applications as quickly as possible. This is a very complex process and will take some time. You can help by responding to any of our requests in the specified timeframes.
Your application can take longer to process if:
If your SHEV application is refused, you can apply for merits review by the Administrative Review Tribunal (ART).
If we refuse your SHEV application, your refusal letter will provide further information about your review rights, including timeframes to apply for review.
9. Your obligations
You and the members of your same family unit included in your application must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
As a Safe Haven Enterprise visa holder, you can live, work or study anywhere in Australia. There are no penalties if you chose not to live, work or study in a SHEV regional area.
If you do not work or study in a SHEV regional area, you will still be able to apply for another SHEV or a Temporary Protection visa if you need Australia's protection.
See which conditions apply to this visa
10. Travel
If you leave Australia before we decide your SHEV application, your bridging visa will expire and you will not be allowed to re-enter Australia.
If we have granted you a SHEV, visa condition 8570 (Restricted travel) applies to your visa.
Visa condition 8570 (Restricted travel) restricts your right to travel. You can't travel to your home country under any circumstances and you can only enter any other country if you have compassionate or compelling reasons for travel and we have given you written approval to travel before you leave Australia.
If you travel overseas without the Department’s written approval, you will breach visa condition 8570, and we may cancel your visa (and the visas of members of your family unit) while you are offshore.
For more information, see Leaving Australia.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your travel document or ImmiCard. You will not get a label in your travel document.
12. Meeting the SHEV pathway requirements
With this visa, any work or full-time study that you do in a SHEV regional area may count towards meeting the pathway requirements to apply for some other visas in Australia (but not a permanent Protection visa).
There are no penalties if you chose not to live, work or study in SHEV regional areas.
If you do not work or study in a SHEV regional area, you will not be able to meet the SHEV pathway requirements to apply for other visas. You will be able to apply for another SHEV or a Temporary Protection visa if you still need Australia's protection and are not subject to any application bars.
13. Withdraw your application
If you hold a bridging visa and withdraw your SHEV application before we make a decision, you may be prevented from applying for a SHEV or a Temporary Protection visa, and your bridging visa will expire 35 days after you withdraw your application.
You may withdraw your SHEV application in writing at any time before we make our decision.
Your request must include:
Any additional applicants who are 18 years of age or older must sign the letter of withdrawal or send a separate email or letter withdrawing their application.
If you entered Australia without a valid visa or were not immigration cleared on arrival, you may only be eligible to apply for a Temporary Protection visa (TPV) or a Safe Haven Enterprise visa (SHEV). You cannot apply for a permanent Protection visa (subclass 866).
To apply for a Safe Haven Enterprise visa, you must:
As defined by the Migration Act 1958 (Migration Act) you must:
Australia must not return people to their home country where there is a risk that the person may suffer harm because they engage Australia's protection obligations.
You may be required to provide documents as evidence of your identity, nationality or citizenship with your application. It is your responsibility to cooperate and provide this evidence so we can complete identity checks.
We may ask you to provide biometrics (a scan of your fingerprints and a digital photograph of your face) as part of your application, if you have not provided them to us before.
We will use the information collected about your identity when assessing your claims for protection and completing character and security checks.
You may not be able to make a valid Safe Haven Enterprise (SHEV) visa application if you:
The Minister has the power to lift any application bar if it is determined to be in the public interest, and may have already lifted any relevant application bar(s) in your case.
We will let you know if an application bar affects your SHEV application.
As part of the application process, we will assess whether you meet Australia’s security requirements for the grant of a SHEV.
You must undergo health examinations. This will protect your health and the health of the Australian community.
These examinations are conducted by Bupa Medical Visa Services.
You will receive a health identifier (HAP ID) and information about how to arrange your health examinations after you have lodged your visa application.
You must meet certain character requirements.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
Check that you are eligible. You can then:
Only certain people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. We can make a decision on your application using the information you provide when you lodge your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you don't provide true information.
It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible in your application. You should ensure that your application is truthful and complete. We can make a decision using only the information you provide when you submit your application.
You can find a list of documents that must be included with your application in the online application form in ImmiAccount.
You must provide all relevant documents to pay the visa application charge when you apply. See How to pay.
You must provide colour scans or photos of original and translated documents of identity, nationality and citizenship such as:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you can't provide these documents, provide a statement with your application to explain why you have no travel or identity documents.
You must answer all the questions on the application form about your claims for protection. If you do not have enough space, submit additional information and attach it to the application.
When preparing your claims for protection, the form will ask you to provide all the details about why you are seeking protection. You must provide, wherever possible, documentation to support your claims. You will need to address the following questions:
We will use this information to assess whether you engage Australia's protection obligations.
You should provide with your application any documents or evidence that you think will support your claims for protection. You should attach all relevant documents to your ImmiAccount.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (e.g. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships
Provide military service records or discharge papers if you or any other person included in the application served in the armed forces of any country.
You must provide a police certificate from each country you have lived in for 12 months or more during the past 10 years after you turned 16 years of age (other than a country from which you are claiming protection).
Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you.
Provide a copy of any visas or residence permits you and each person included in the application hold.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (e.g. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships between each applicant)
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
You must apply for this visa by submitting an online application in ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photographs must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Ensure you save photographs under the name of the person in the photograph. Clearly label all other files in English.
Attach:
Learn more about attaching documents.
You must tell the truth in your application. If you provide incorrect information on purpose, we may question your credibility and we might refuse your application for a SHEV.
It is important that you include all details about your claims for protection and your identity, nationality and citizenship. It is also important that you provide supporting documentation relating to protection claims and your identity and nationality or citizenship.
The form asks for information about your education, work, travel, relationship and address history. Make sure you include all information, so that there are no gaps in the timelines. For example, if you were unemployed for a period, put this on the form to explain the gap between your jobs.
If a migration agent completes your application form, you must read and understand all the information that is included in the form before signing it and before signing any statutory declaration you make. You are responsible for any claims made in the form. It is very important that you do not sign blank pages or documents even if you are asked to do so.
Protection visa applications must be lodged online through ImmiAccount. When you lodge online you can:
To apply online, follow these steps:
The online form will guide you to answer the questions we need from you.
It has help text if you need support. When you finish your online application, you will come to a page that will prompt you to attach documents and make payment online. You can save your application at any page and go back to it when you are ready.
Once you have submitted your application online, you will be able to check the status of your application through ImmiAccount.
If you have difficulties lodging your application online, the ImmiAccount front page provides information about planned and unplanned system outages. You may need to return to ImmiAccount at a later time to complete your application. For help and support for technical issues with ImmiAccount refer to technical help.
The online application form asks if you agree to the department communicating with you via email. This is the department’s preferred and fastest method of communication. If you do not agree to email communication, we will send you information by post, which is slower. Your application may take longer to finalise if we need to contact you about it by post.
If you have already applied and you want us to communicate with you by email but you did not select this option when completing your application, complete Form 1193 Communicating by email with the Department (127KB PDF).
We will let you know when we have received your application by sending you an acknowledgement letter.
We can’t give updates on applications.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
We may grant you a bridging visa that allows you to stay lawfully in Australia while we process your Safe Haven Enterprise visa (subclass 790) application.
The type of bridging visa we may grant you and whether you can work in Australia while holding this visa depends on a number of factors.
If you leave Australia before we grant you a SHEV, your bridging visa will expire and you will not be allowed to re-enter Australia unless you hold another valid visa.
We will let you know when you need to arrange your health examinations. You will receive a health identifier (HAP ID) and information about how to arrange your health examinations.
We may ask you to provide biometrics for you or any members of the same family unit included in your application.
We may not ask you to provide biometrics again if you have already provided them to us.
We will take a digital photograph of your face and a scan of your fingerprints.
If you do not let us collect this information:
See more information about how we collect biometrics.
Waivers can apply in exceptional circumstances and we will consider as required.
If you are younger than 18 years of age, you will need a parent, guardian or other adult (such as a relative or friend), either to give their permission for us to take your photograph or your fingerprints, or to be present while we take them.
We will not take fingerprints of people who are:
We will not take facial images of minors who are younger than 5 years of age.
An incapable person is someone who is not able to understand why they need to provide their photograph or fingerprints. This includes people who have an intellectual disability.
We will contact you if we require you to attend an interview. The interview is to discuss your protection visa application. It is also an opportunity for you to clarify the claims in your application.
However, we may make our decision on the information provided in your visa application and you may not get another opportunity to present these claims. That is why it is important that you provide all claims, supporting documentation and evidence when you submit your application.
We conduct most protection visa interviews via videoconference. If we invite you to attend an interview, you will be provided with instructions on how to join the videoconference. If we conduct the interview in person, we will provide details of the relevant office.
At interview you need to give us all the information we need to make a decision about your visa application.
We might ask you about:
You must make every reasonable effort to attend your scheduled interview. Let us know as soon as possible if there are any reasons why you can’t attend your interview. We may consider if it is possible to reschedule it.
If you do not attend your scheduled interview, we can decide your protection visa application on the information available at the time.
It is important that you provide all claims, supporting documentation and evidence when you submit your application. You can provide more information about your claims or your application before we make our decision. An officer may decide on your application with no further contact.
If you want to provide more information before your interview, submit it at least 5 working days before the interview via ImmiAccount.
If you submit information less than 5 working days before the interview, we will still consider it. The officer may need more time for this, and your interview may not proceed as advised. The officer may cancel the interview and seek more information from you in writing.
Please bring the following documents to the interview:
Bring English translations of all documents. Translations must be certified by a translator accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
An officer from the Department will attend the interview. Your migration agent or representative can attend the interview, if you have one.
If you need an interpreter, we will provide one. The interpreter is not allowed to disclose anything they hear during the interview. They can only assist with language interpretation. They are not involved in the decision made on your application.
You may be able to bring a support person, such as a friend or relative, to the interview. At least 2 working days before the interview, contact the officer on your 'request to attend interview' letter to ask for permission. This person should provide photograph identification to prove their identity.
You should make childcare arrangements for your children while you attend the interview, as this will allow you to speak with our officer uninterrupted.
You should be ready 15 minutes before your scheduled interview. We will give you information explaining Australia's protection obligations.
Interviews are audio-recorded. Our officer will discuss this with you. They will ask your permission to record the interview as an accurate record of the discussion. We will keep the recording confidential. The officer making the decision will consider the recording, along with all other information you have provided.
The Privacy Act 1988 protects your personal information, including the information you provide at the interview. Before your interview you should read the information in Form 1442i - Privacy notice (168KB PDF).
At the interview, the interviewing officer will:
It is important that you tell the truth during the protection visa process. You must give us clear and complete answers, and explain all of the reasons why you are seeking protection in Australia. You must give enough evidence to establish your protection claims. At the interview, you can change any information you have given before.
Giving false or misleading information is a serious offence in Australian law. You may be subject to criminal penalties and we may refuse your application.
You can provide more relevant information to us, in writing, at any time until we make a decision on your application.
If you did not provide all relevant documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If we receive information from another person that could result in the refusal of your visa, we will give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
You can add members of your same family unit to your application at any time before we decide it. The members of your family unit will also have to be in Australia when they apply.
If you want to add family members after you submit your application, you can only add:
You can only add them after you submit your application if:
To add a family member, complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and attach this form and evidence of relationship documents to ImmiAccount.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (e.g. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships between each applicant).
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision, the child will be taken to be included in that application, unless they are an Australian citizen at birth. You must tell us of the child's birth as soon as possible by:
If your child is born in Australia, we automatically grant them the same visa you hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child may be an Australian citizen by birth.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers and upload it to ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
If you have submitted a valid application, in limited circumstances you might be able to get financial or other assistance from the Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) program.
To access public healthcare, enrol in Medicare. Take your 'acknowledgement of visa application' letter and supporting documents to a Medicare Service centre.
We will let you know our decision on your visa application in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will send you a visa grant notification letter. Your letter will tell you:
You should keep a copy of this letter in a safe place.
If we refuse your visa, we will send you a refusal notification letter. Your letter will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
If your Safe Haven Enterprise visa application has been finally determined, and you do not engage Australia's protection obligations and you do not hold another visa, you do not have a lawful right to stay in Australia.
You will need to return to your home country or to another country where you have right of entry.
If you become unlawful in Australia and do not depart voluntarily, we will take steps to remove you from Australia.
If we refuse your SHEV application or cancel your SHEV after we have granted it, and you have exhausted all appeal rights, you can ask the Minister for Home Affairs to intervene in your case. The Minister does not have to consider your request.
You can:
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions use VEVO.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
With this visa, any work or full-time study that you do in a SHEV regional area may count towards meeting the pathway requirements to certain visas in Australia.
There are no penalties if you chose not to live, work or study in SHEV regional areas.
If you do not work or study in a SHEV regional area, for at least 42 months (3 and a half years) you will not be able to meet the pathway requirements to apply for other visas. You will be able to apply for another SHEV or a Temporary Protection visa if you still need Australia's protection.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa:
See what to do if your situation changes.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You and your eligible family members can obtain an ImmiCard.
An ImmiCard is an official, secure immigration credential that contains a photograph and personal details such as family name, given names, date of birth and gender.
ImmiCards also have a unique number that is linked to biometric and visa details in our system.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
You can't sponsor family members for a visa through the Australian Humanitarian or Family Migration Programs while you hold a Safe Haven Enterprise visa.
You are not eligible to apply for Australian citizenship while you hold a Safe Haven Enterprise visa.
SHEVs are temporary visas and cease 5 years after date of grant.
If you are a SHEV holder and you arrived in Australia on or after 14 February 2023, you must apply for a subsequent TPV or SHEV before your current SHEV expires in order to stay in Australia and remain lawful, if you still need Australia's protection.
If you currently hold or formerly held a TPV or SHEV and you arrived in Australia before 14 February 2023 you may be eligible to apply for a permanent Resolution of Status (subclass 851) visa instead of a subsequent TPV or SHEV.
Make sure you keep your contact details with the Department updated so that you receive the bar lift notice. For more information, see: Your personal details have changed.
You must apply after we notify you and before your visa expires, or you will become unlawful and be barred from applying for a subsequent visa.
If you make a valid application for either a subsequent SHEV, TPV or a Resolution of Status visa while you still hold your SHEV, your SHEV will remain in effect until we make a decision on your application:
Make sure that you give us your current contact details, so you can receive the bar lift letter and the mobile and email reminders. It is your responsibility as a visa holder to let us know within 28 days if you change your address and to keep your contact details up to date.
You can update your residential address, mobile or email address in your ImmiAccount or by completing Form 929 Change of address and/or passport details  (193KB PDF).
After bar lift notification, we recommend you apply for a subsequent visa at least 3 months before your current SHEV ceases.
To see when your visa expires, use VEVO.
To see if your SHEV has expired already, use VEVO.
If your SHEV has already expired, and you have not applied for a subsequent SHEV or TPV, you:
If your SHEV has already expired and you are unlawful, see My visa is about to expire or has expired or contact the Status Resolution Service by calling 1300 853 773.
If you need interpreting assistance, call 131 450.
You may be able to access a range of services offered by the Australian Government such as jobactive, Centrelink, Medicare  and short-term counselling for torture or trauma where required. Services Australia delivers a range of social and health-related payments and services.
For more information about the range of services that may be available to you and your eligibility to access them go to Services Australia .
If you are an unaccompanied humanitarian minor, you can get support through the Unaccompanied Humanitarian Minors program.
To receive an income in Australia, you need a Tax File Number (TFN). Income includes wages or salary from a job, government payments and income from investments. For more information or to apply for a TFN online, go to the Australian Taxation Office .
The Australian Government has developed a family safety pack with information on Australia’s laws regarding domestic and family violence, sexual assault and forced marriage. The family safety pack  also includes important information about essential services and emergency contacts in Australia.
Check your visa travel facility in VEVO.
As a SHEV holder, you can travel overseas on your visa. However, you must:
You should not use the passport or travel document issued to you by your country of nationality. If you do so, we may consider that you no longer need Australia's protection and we may cancel your visa.
TPV and SHEV holders are eligible to apply for a travel document issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
Contact any Australian Passport Office in DFAT to apply for a Convention Travel Document or a Certificate of Identity .
Under Visa condition 8570 (Restricted Travel) you can't travel to your home country under any circumstances and you can only enter any other country if you have compassionate or compelling reasons for travel and we have given you written approval to travel before you leave Australia.
If you travel overseas without our written approval, you will breach visa condition 8570. As a result, we may cancel your visa (and the visas of members of your same family unit) while you are offshore.
If you enter the country from which we granted you protection, even for a short time, you will breach visa condition 8570. As a result, we may cancel your visa (and the visas of members of your same family unit).
Before you travel, complete Form 1454 Request for approval to travel under condition 8570  (303KB PDF) and email it to travel.request@homeaffairs.gov.au. You must have compassionate or compelling circumstances justifying your travel.
We would normally facilitate re-entry to Australia for visa holders who have valid travel documents issued by the Australian Passport Office, such as a Convention Travel Document (also known as a Titre de Voyage).
If you travel overseas, with or without obtaining approval to travel, you do so at your own risk. Consular assistance is only available to Australian citizens, and only to permanent residents in crisis situations.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.