Foreign Government Agency visa (subclass 415)The Foreign Government Agency visa (subclass 415) is closed to new applications. You cannot apply for this visa. You might be able to apply for the Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403).
1. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Foreign Government Agency visa (subclass 415). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
During your stay in Australia, you and your family must:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
During your stay in Australia, you and your family must:
​​​​​​You must not:
If your sponsor ends your employment, you must either:
Any family included on your visa must:
Tell us if your circumstances change after you have applied for this visa. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth or death in the family.
You can use the following forms:
2. Sponsors
This information is for sponsors of workers on a Foreign Government Agency visa (subclass 415).
This visa is now closed to new applications. You cannot apply to sponsor someone for this visa.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO for Organisations) to check the visa details and entitlements of a person that you have sponsored.
Your sponsorship period lasts for three years.
New applications for a Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) do not require sponsorship.
You must be able to comply with following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have someone else authorised to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
Cooperating with inspectors can include (but is not limited to):
You must keep records that show you have complied with your obligations. All records must be in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person.
You must keep a record of:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.

Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@homeaffairs.gov.au
By registered post:
You must ensure that the person you have sponsored participates only in the occupation, program or activity for which you nominated them. If you want to engage a visa holder for a different occupation, program or activity, you must lodge a new nomination application. This obligation starts on the day the person you have sponsored is granted a visa. If they already hold a visa when you nominate them, your obligation starts on the day the nomination is approved.
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if:
The types of actions that could be taken depend on whether the sponsor is a standard business sponsor or has made  a work agreement.
If you have sponsored someone under a work  agreement, we could suspend or terminate it in accordance with the clauses of the particular work  agreement.