Temporary Work (Entertainment) visa (subclass 420)The Temporary Work (Entertainment) visa (subclass 420) is closed to new applications. You might be eligible to apply for Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408).
1. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Temporary Work (Entertainment) visa (subclass 420). It explains your rights and obligations.
Your visa is valid for the duration of the nominated position or two years, whichever is the earliest.
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must:
If the sponsor ceases your employment or activity, you must either:
Your family cannot enter Australia before you. When your visa ends, your family must leave Australia with you.
Your family must:
Your family can work or study in Australia while their visa is valid.
There could be other conditions on your entry and stay in Australia that will be explained to you when you are granted the visa.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
2. Sponsors
This information is for a person who sponsored someone for a Temporary Work (Entertainment) visa (subclass 420) to work temporarily in the entertainment industry in Australia.
A sponsorship lasts for up to three years.
If you are an approved Entertainment sponsor, you can apply to vary (extend) your sponsorship before it expires to allow you to continue to nominate people. If the sponsorship expires you will need to reapply and be approved as a sponsor to nominate further visa applicants.
You must contact the Entertainment Visa Centre to report any changes in circumstances that could affect the processing of your application.
When you write to us, you must include:
This information helps us locate your application quickly.
You must be able to comply with following sponsorship obligations.
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have authorised someone else to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
Cooperating with inspectors can include (but is not limited to):
You must keep records that show you have your complied with sponsorship obligations. All records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person.
You must keep a record of:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.
Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@border.gov.au
By registered post:
You must ensure that the person you have sponsored participates only in the occupation, program or activity for which you nominated them. If you want to engage a visa holder for  a different occupation, program or activity, you must lodge a new nomination application. This obligation starts on the day the person you have sponsored is granted a visa. If they already hold a visa when you nominate them, your obligation starts on the day the nomination is approved.
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you may be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You may be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10 000) less any amount which may have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’ above).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen. It ends five years after they leave Australia.  This means that the department might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
If you sponsor someone to work for you as a volunteer without a salary or wages or sponsor someone to participate in a professional development program, you must secure an offer of a reasonable standard of accommodation in Australia for them and any family they bring with them.
If the accommodation becomes unavailable, you must find alternative accommodation for them.
A ‘reasonable standard of accommodation’ means that the accommodation must:
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is earliest):
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958, including Fair Work Inspectors, and Fair Work Building Industry Inspectors. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if: