1. Subclass 461
2. New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa (Subclass 461) (Subclass 461)
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years.
From AUD430.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want during the 5 year period.
The visa will be in effect from the date your visa is granted.
5. Include family
You can combine your application with other members of the family unit when you apply.
Members of the family unit who apply for the visa must meet health and character requirements.
You can't add family members to a Subclass 461 visa application after it is lodged.
While applicants can include members of their familyunit when they lodge the application, all applicants are assessed individually.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Note: a child born to a New Zealand citizen parent in Australia may not be eligible for New Zealand citizenship by descent. For information about New Zealand citizenship, see the New Zealand government website.
6. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia after your visa ceases unless you are the holder of another visa.
You can apply for a further Subclass 461 visa if you meet the eligibility requirements.
7. Cost
The below are the costs to make a valid application for a Subclass 461 visa:
You might also have to pay other costs such as for health examinations, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa application might cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
8. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance.
See the Step-by-Step section for information on how to apply.
See Visa outcome for information on where you must be if we grant you the visa.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct cost. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application without processing it.
10. Your obligations
You and members of your family unit must meet all visa conditions that apply and follow all Australian laws.
See the conditions for this visa.
11. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want during the 5 years you may hold your visa.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a visa label in your passport.
You cannot be granted this visa if you are an Australian citizen.
You cannot be granted this visa if you are a New Zealand citizen.
If you become a New Zealand citizen during the processing of your application you can continue with the application, or instead withdraw it and apply for a Subclass 444 visa and be granted that visa if you meet the requirements.
Certain persons may not be eligible for New Zealand citizenship by descent.
For information about New Zealand citizenship, see the New Zealand government website.
You might be able to be granted this visa if you are in any of the below three categories.
You are a member of the family unit of a New Zealand citizen, who is not an eligible New Zealand citizen and who either:
Note: Your New Zealand family member must have (or be eligible for) a Subclass 444 visa.
New Zealand citizens are not automatically granted a Subclass 444 visa.
To find out if your New Zealand family member already holds a visa, use VEVO.
You are in Australia and you meet all of the following:
You are outside Australia and you meet all of the following:
If you are outside Australia, you must also meet one of the following:
For more information on family units see members of the family unit.
If you are outside Australia when you apply
You can apply for the subclass 461 visa without needing to hold another type of visa.
If you are in Australia when you apply
You need to hold a substantive temporary visa when you apply, other than a Subclass 403 Temporary Work (International Relations) visa in the Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or Consular) stream.
If you did not hold a substantive visa when you applied, the last substantive temporary visa held by you was not a Subclass 403 (Temporary Work (International Relations) visa in the Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or Consular) stream and you satisfy certain criteria such as having made your application within 12 months after being the holder of a substantive visa.
You and any members of your family unit who apply for the visa with you must meet certain health requirements.
We strongly encourage you to undertake any required health examinations before lodging your application. Lodging a complete application assists with quicker processing times. To complete your health examinations prior to submitting your visa application visit My Health Declarations(MHD).
.
You and any members of your family unit 16 years of age or over who apply for the visa with you must meet certain character requirements.
Other family members might also need to meet certain character requirements.
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what is considered as adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
​If you are 18 years of age or older when you make your application, you must sign the Australian Values Statement unless we decide you are not required to sign it due to any compelling circumstances that you have demonstrated.
You should not have any outstanding debts to the Australian Government. If you owe the Australian Government any money, you must have made appropriate arrangements to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you are under 18 years of age, we might not grant this visa if it is not in your best interest.
You might not be able to apply for this visa if you have a No Further Stay condition.
Check if this affects you.
You might want to get help with your application.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
All applicants should have a valid passport or other travel document before we grant this visa.
If you need a new passport, plan to get it before you apply for this visa.
If you cannot get a passport or travel document, tell us as soon as possible.
If you get a new passport after you apply, tell us your new passport information as soon as possible. See how to tell us your passport details have changed.
You must give us documents proving your identity and relationship to a New Zealand citizen, along with documents about any members of your family unit who are applying with you.
If your current visa is about to cease you can lodge a Subclass 461 visa application by submitting the application form and the identity documents for all applicants and the New Zealand family member.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide identity documents and evidence of your relationship to a New Zealand citizen.
We need proof of your identity. If you can't prove your identity we might:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents, or a statutory declaration if anyone in your application has been:
Provide two recent passport-size photos (45mm x 35mm) for each person in your application. The photos must have:
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16 years of age. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
You are strongly encouraged to undertake any character checks before lodging your application. Lodging a complete application assists with quicker processing times.
If you spent a total of 12 months or more in the last 10 years in New Zealand you must provide a New Zealand police certificate.
The Department of Home Affairs will initiate the request of a New Zealand criminal record check on your behalf. A case officer will contact you directly to facilitate the check.
You will need to complete the Consent to Exchange of Criminal Record Check Information - Jan 2024 form. You may also be required to provide additional documentation to us if there are any convictions of concern.
Check ImmiAccount if you need to do any health examinations. If health examinations are required, you are strongly encouraged to do them before lodging your application so that we can process your application more quickly.
Even though you cannot lodge an application for this visa in ImmiAccount, you can do any required health examinations in ImmiAccount before you lodge your application.
For more information see health requirements.
You must be the partner of a New Zealand citizen, or the child or step-child of a New Zealand citizen or their partner.
Evidence of your relationship to a New Zealand citizen can include:
See the type of documents you need to provide to us as evidence that you are either the partner or dependent child or step-child of a New Zealand citizen in the sections below.
Also give us evidence that the New Zealand citizen holds or is eligible for a Subclass 444 visa. This can include:
We need to see evidence that you are in a genuine and ongoing relationship with your spouse or de facto partner. Provide:
If either you or your partner have been married previously, provide evidence of divorce.
For every dependent under 18 years of age who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as:
If the child (or step-child) is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide  Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
Provide identity documents, photos and information about other relationships for dependants who are 18 years of age or older.
For every dependant 18 years of age or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Usually, your child (or step-child) must be under 23 years of age to be included in your application form and be under 23 years of age at the time of visa grant.
However, a child (or step-child) over 23 years of age can be included if they are unable to earn a living to support themselves due to physical or cognitive limitations. In this case, please provide information about the physical or cognitive limitations.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters (NAATI).
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
When you apply on paper you must provide certified copies of your documents.
This includes:
If you are emailing us documents after you apply, the documents do not need to be certified. Use a good quality photograph or scan.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You can't apply for this visa online.
Submit a valid application before any existing visa ceases.
Postal address
	New Zealand Family Relationship visa office
	GPO Box 9984
	SYDNEY NSW 2001
	Australia
Ensure you pay the correct postage amount.
You can’t submit this application in person.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
If it is within standard processing times, do not call or email. We do not provide updates on the progress of your application. You will be contacted if additional information is required.
We do not acknowledge receipt of documents you send after you have submitted your application.
This visa is a paper based application. You can't import it to, or access it through ImmiAccount.
If you apply in Australia, tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application.
If you leave Australia, make sure you hold a visa that will allow you to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
We will let you know if you need to do any other health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not give us all documents when you applied, send them to the same address where you sent your visa application as soon as you can.
We do not acknowledge receipt of documents you send after you have submitted your application.
If you are in Australia, make sure you continue being a lawful non-citizen by holding a visa while we your application is being processed.
If you held a substantive visa when you applied for this visa, you may be eligible for an associated bridging visa A (BVA). If you are granted a BVA and your current visa ceases before your Subclass 461 visa is decided, the BVA will come into effect. You can stay lawfully in Australia on the BVA while your application is being processed.
See what to do if your visa has ceased or is about to cease.
Learn more about visa expiry.
Let us know as soon as you can. Complete  Form 1023 - Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australian when we make a decision.
Ensure you keep your contact details with us up to date. We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If your visa is granted, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If your visa is refused, we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why your visa was refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws. See your conditions in your grant letter or in VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us when your situation changes
See your conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
To see when you must leave Australia, use VEVO
You can apply for another Subclass 461 visa if you meet the eligibility criteria.
If you no longer meet the eligibility criteria for another Subclass 461 visa, or want to apply for permanent residence, you should explore your options with the Visa finder.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while you hold your Subclass 461 visa.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
This visa lets you work and study in Australia. You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.