1. Subclass 124
2. Distinguished Talent visa (Subclass 124) (Subclass 124)
Permanently
From AUD4,110.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance. You must be outside Australia for your visa to be granted.
If you are currently in Australia and hold an eligible visa you may need to consider your eligibility for the Distinguished Talent visa (subclass 858).
5. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
6. Include family
You can include members of the family unit when you apply. You can also add family to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
If you are under 18 years old, you can include:
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
7. Cost
The visa costs AUD4,110.00 for the main applicant.
There is an additional charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
You might have to pay an extra fee for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. We will tell you when to pay the second instalment.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
9. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will contribute to Australia in your field of expertise.
10. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Your contribution may be:
You must contribute to the nation as a whole.
You must be able to find work in your field in Australia, or become independently established in your field in Australia.
You can't include income from work outside your field. Even if this is only part of your overall income.
You must be internationally recognised with a record of achievement in:
Your achievements must be exceptional and outstanding. This means you:
You must also participate in a field that:
You must have been prominent in this field in the past 2 years.
You must be nominated to apply for this visa. Your nominator must also meet our criteria.
Your nominator must be an Australian citizen, permanent resident, eligible New Zealand citizen or an Australian organisation with a national reputation in the same field as you. Where appropriate, the nomination should come from the peak Australian body.
You can be any age to apply for this visa.
If you are under 18 years old or you are aged 55 years or older when you apply, you must be of exceptional benefit to the Australian community.
Applicants aged 18 or over must have functional English or you will need to pay an extra charge, called the second instalment to be granted this visa.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet our character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Before you apply for this visa, you need an eligible individual or organisation to nominate you.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them.
You don’t have to use a migration agent to apply for any visa. But if you want to, see how to find a registered migration agent.
Anyone can help you fill out forms or give you general help with your application. But you must let us know if you want someone to:
You will need to provide documents to support the claims you make in your application and show you meet the other visa criteria.  This includes evidence of your achievements in an eligible field.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
You must prove your achievements in an eligible field.
Provide:
The evidence supplied to support your record of achievement must also demonstrate prominence in the field within the 2 years immediately before applying. It should include:
If you are younger than 18 or older than 55, you must prove you would be of exceptional benefit to the Australian community.
Provide
You must prove you are able to work or support yourself in your field of achievement.
Provide:
You can't include income from work outside your field. Even if this is only part of your overall income.
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificate.
If requested you will need to:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof you have at least functional English.
All applicants aged 18 years and older at the time of application who can't provide evidence of having at least functional English must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge.
If you and any family member applying with you have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
We will advise you when to pay this.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
See more about  getting help with your application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Provide 2 recent photographs (45mm x 35mm) of each person included in the application.
Photos should have:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
This visa is closed to new applications.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
We do not give updates on applications.
See if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount or wait for us to contact you.
If you are in Australia, you do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure your visa allows you to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
See what to do if you visa is expiring or has expired.
If you applied outside Australia, don't arrange travel to Australia, leave your job or sell your home until we advise you in writing that you have been granted the visa
We will let you know if you need to provide biometrics.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, attach them in ImmiAccount or send the documents to the office where you sent your application.
We might also ask you to provide more information. We are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without requesting more documents.
If you travel to Australia on a different visa and that visa ends, you can't get a bridging visa to stay in Australia. This is because you must be outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
If you need to pay a second instalment, pay it when we send you the invoice.
Do not ask for the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and attach it to your ImmiAccount or send to the address you sent your application.
If you are under 18 years of age members of the family unit can include:
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answer(s) and attach it to your ImmiAccount or send to the address you sent your application.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
See more about withdrawing your nomination.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but you must be outside of Australia if our decision is to grant you a visa. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions use VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. The subclass 444 visa is not a permanent visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
We expect that you will use this visa to contribute to Australia in your field of expertise.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day you entered Australia on this visa.
Check the travel validity of your Distinguished Talent (subclass 124) visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.