1. Subclass 102
2. Adoption visa (Subclass 102) (Subclass 102)
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Permanently
From AUD3,140.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
The child may be eligible for COVID-19 visa concessions.
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
5. Intercountry adoption
We can't help arrange adoptions and we do not issue letters of no objection. Our role is to assess and decide applications for visas.
Learn more about adopting a child overseas from Intercountry Adoptions Australia.​​
We are unable to accept adoption visa applications for children who have been adopted in Pakistan.
6. With this visa the child can
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
7. How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
The child becomes a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
8. Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply for an Adoption visa, submit separate applications for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or added to their application at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
9. Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also an additional charge for each of the child's dependent children who apply for the visa.
There might be other costs for health exams, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what the visa might cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
10. Apply from
The child must be outside Australia when the application is submitted.
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge is not paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
12. Your obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
To be eligible to apply for an Adoption visa (subclass 102), the child must:
For further information on adopting a child see Intercountry Adoptions Australia.​​
A child may be eligible for Australian Citizenship if the intercountry adoption is:
If we grant the child Australian citizenship they can enter Australia on an Australian passport and will not need to apply for a visa.
For further information see Become an Australian citizen (by adoption).
The Australian Government, including the Department of Home Affairs, has no role in the overseas expatriate adoption process.
The Australian Government, including our Department, does not provide documents that support or endorse expatriate adoptions overseas. This includes letters of support or certificates of no objection.
If an overseas authority asks you to obtain a document of support for an expatriate adoption, you can advise them to email info@intercountryadoption.gov.au
We only assess and decide adoption visa applications. A visa will only be granted if all eligibility requirements are met.
If the child is adopted through an expatriate adoption, and you (the adoptive parent) are considering bringing them to Australia, then, amongst other criteria, all of the following must be met:
If a child has been legally adopted in an overseas country (not Australia) under that country's law, it does not guarantee that the overseas adoption will meet the requirements of an Adoption (Subclass 102) visa.
We recommend you obtain independent legal advice both in Australia and in the child’s country of usual residence before proceeding with an expatriate adoption.
The child must be sponsored by an eligible adoptive parent or prospective adoptive parent.
We must approve the sponsorship. We might not approve sponsorship if the sponsor or their partner has been charged or convicted of offences involving children. Learn more about measures for the protection of children.
The child must be under 18 at the time of adoption, when the application is submitted and when we make our decision.
The child and any dependent child who applies for the visa with them must meet our health requirement.
If we can consider a health waiver for an adoption visa applicant, we will examine your circumstances carefully. Learn more about health waivers.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
If the child is aged 16 years or older they must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that any other dependent child who applies for the visa meet the requirement.
If the child or any member of the child's family owes the Australian Government money it must be paid back or there must be a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check the child's passport is valid.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide documents in support of the visa application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if the child's identity can't be established or false information is provided.
Provide the pages of the child's current passport showing their photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a certified copy of the passport or travel document the child used to enter Australia and any passports the child has held since then.
Provide 4 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) of the child and of any dependent child included in the application.
Photographs must be:
The child can wear untinted prescription glasses. If the child wears a head covering for religious reasons, they can show only their face.
Provide the child's adoption papers or adoption compliance certificate.
Where an Australian state or territory central authority has found you suitable to be an adoptive parent, and you have made a written undertaking to adopt a child, provide evidence from the central authority of the child's country that the child:
If an Australian state or territory central adoption authority was involved in the adoption, include a letter supporting the adoption.
If the child was adopted through an expatriate adoption process, provide evidence that:
Provide these documents for any other dependent child included in the application.
Children over 16 years must provide a police certificate from every country they have spent 12 months or more in the last 10 years, since turning 16.
For Australia, we only accept National Police Certificates applied for under Code 33 – Immigration/Citizenship. The Australian Federal Police issue these certificates. We don't accept standard disclosure certificates or certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
If anyone in the application served in the armed forces of any country, they must provide military service records or discharge papers.
Children over 16 years of age must complete and provide Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment (596KB PDF).
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with the child, provide:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Have all documents certified. This includes:
Photographs of the child and any of their dependent children included in the application must also be certified.
Keep a copy of the completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete the following 2 forms and send them together by post (with correct prepaid postage) or by courier to the Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth.
You must pay the application charge before you post your application. See how to pay.
We will not process your application until you pay the application charge. Your application should also include evidence of payment of the application charge and all the relevant supporting documentation.
If you submit your application at any other office or in any other way, it will not be a valid application and cannot be considered further.  Applications for this visa cannot be submitted in person.
The forms must be completed in English.
By post (with correct prepaid postage):
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Locked Bag 7
NORTHBRIDGE WA 6865
By courier:
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Wellington Central
836 Wellington Street
WEST PERTH WA 6005
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will let the applicant know when we have received the application and documents. There may be other things to do and be aware of after applying.
We can't provide updates on the progress of the application within global visa processing times. We will tell you if we need anything further.
Do not arrange for the child to travel to Australia until we tell you, in writing, that we have granted the child the visa.
We will tell you when to arrange the child’s health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will tell you if your adopted child needs to provide them.
If you lodged the application on or after 1 April 2020:
If you lodged the application before April 2020:
We might also ask you to provide more information.
You can add a child's dependent child to their visa application any time before we make a decision.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Tell us as soon as you can if you have made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We can grant a visa to any child who is outside Australia and meets the visa grant requirements.
This may not apply if you are eligible for a COVID-19 visa concession.
We will tell you our decision in writing. Keep a copy of the decision.
If we grant the child’s visa, we will tell you:
If we refuse the visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse the application.
The child must have:
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter.
If the child’s visa is still valid and the date specified in their visa grant letter has passed or will pass before they can travel to Australia, they must ensure that:
We may then send the child a travel facilitation letter. This will state that we allow them to enter Australia after the first entry arrival date on their visa.
We will not issue a travel facilitation letter unless there is less than 3 months remaining on the child’s first entry arrival date.
All people arriving into Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. Children aged 16 or over might be able to leave the airport using the SmartGate.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You can check visa details and conditions in VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
See the visa's conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets your child and any of their dependent children who are granted the visa stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, the child's permanent residence starts on the day they enter Australia.
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility of this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
The child can work and study in Australia once they arrive on their visa. See their workplace rights and entitlements.
Dependents can't be added to this visa after we have made a decision.
To find a visa for the family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, your child might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, the permanent residency starts on the day the child entered Australia on this visa.
The child must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check if the child needs a Resident Return visa to return to Australia as a permanent resident in VEVO.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request the child's international movement records to get proof of their travel in and out of Australia.