Retirement visa (subclass 410)The Retirement visa (subclass 410) is designed for retirees and their partners (if any) who want to spend some of their retirement years in Australia.
This visa is not available to new or first-time visa applicants other than partners of existing Retirement visa holders, former Retirement visa holders who have not held another substantive visa since last entering Australia. 
Former Retirement visa (subclass 410) holders and their partners who have been granted any other substantive visa, including Visitor visas and Electronic Travel Authorities, are not able to reapply for this visa.
Since 1 July 2009, Retirement visa holders have been able to apply for a visa which is valid for 10 years from the date of grant and does not have any restrictions on the hours they are able to work.
1. About this visa
This visa is a temporary visa. It allows you and your partner to:
This is a temporary visa and does not lead to permanent residence in Australia or to Australian citizenship.
Usually, you and your partner need to have valid passports to be granted this visa. If you change your passport after you have been granted this visa you should notify the Department. If you do not provide us with details of any new or additional passport you use to travel to Australia, you will experience delays at the airport and could be denied permission to board your plane
If you are granted the visa, it will be valid for 10 years from the date of grant.
This visa is specifically designed for self-funded retirees, therefore you are generally not entitled to financial assistance or welfare support from the Australian Government.
Generally you are not usually eligible for Medicare benefits on this visa including under Reciprocal Health Care Agreements between Australia and governments of other countries. These are explained on the Services Australia website.
The following definitions are provided to help you understand the information on these pages.
You must maintain adequate health insurance while in Australia. If you do not, any future visa applications may be refused.
You need to pay a non-refundable visa application charge when you lodge your visa application.
Retirement (Subclass 410):
To make a payment, please pay by:
Please do not pay by cash, travellers' cheques or personal cheque
You might need to pay a charge for:
You should also be prepared to pay other costs associated with your application, such as the cost of translations of some documents.
2. Visa applicants
On 1 July 2017, the Department introduced amendments to the Migration Regulations 1994 to provide alternative requirements for Retirement (subclass 410) visa applicants, in Australia, applying for a further subclass 410 visa, but cannot meet certain visa criteria. Compelling and compassionate circumstances may be considered by the Department in cases where an applicant is suffering from hardship due to ailments associated with ageing or difficulties following the death of a partner.
After you have lodged your application for a further subclass 410, the Department will give you an opportunity to provide additional information if you cannot meet certain visa criteria.
The Retirement visa (subclass 410) is only available to
You and your partner will not need to have a health examination unless you have travelled for three months or more to a country where there is a high risk of tuberculosis.
If tuberculosis is identified, medical treatment (rather than visa refusal) is the likely outcome.
For more information see Health Requirements.
To be eligible for this visa you must show evidence that you have:
For health insurance to be considered adequate it must:
Just because a health insurance product is considered adequate for the purposes of meeting the visa requirement does not mean that it will be adequate for your personal circumstances. You should ensure that any insurance you obtain takes into account your individual needs.
We prefer that your health insurance is with an Australian insurer; however alternative arrangements can be accepted. Alternative arrangements with an overseas insurer will require individual detailed examination of the insurance policy and may result in processing delays.
Failure to maintain adequate health insurance may result in the refusal of future visa applications.
You must be of good character to enter and remain in Australia. If you are applying to rollover your Retirement visa, you will need to lodge an up to date Australian Federal Police clearance. You also need to lodge an overseas penal clearance for every country that you have spent at least 12 months in since your last Retirement visa (subclass 410) was granted.
We prefer that these clearances are provided with your application unless you are in Australia and your current visa is about to expire. If this is the case, you should lodge your application and evidence that you have applied for any clearances required. Please be aware that this might delay processing of your visa application, however, you will be granted a Bridging visa A (BVA) that allows you to stay in the country lawfully while your application is being processed.
For more information see Character Requirements.
You are expected to be self-supporting while in Australia.
If you are aged 18 years or over, you must declare that you will respect Australian values and obey the laws of Australia. For this visa, the values statement is included in the general declaration section of the application form. When you sign the application form it means you will also be signing the values statement. You will not be required to have read the Life in Australia book.
For more information see Australian Values - Overview.
Your partner can be included on your application form. You cannot bring any dependent children or other dependent relatives.
Retirement (Subclass 410):
To make a payment, please pay by:
Please do not pay by cash, travellers' cheques or personal cheque
You might need to pay a charge for:
You should also be prepared to pay other costs associated with your application, such as the cost of translations of some documents.
New criteria description
This information explains what you need to do to apply for a Retirement visa (subclass 410). You and anyone included in your application can apply for this visa when you are in or outside of Australia:
You need to provide documents to prove the claims you make in the application. The documents are listed in the Document checklist.
Some documents could take some time to obtain. You should have them ready when you lodge the application to reduce any delays in processing.
For more information see information to help you prepare your application.
You must complete the following application form:
If you are required to provide an Australian penal clearance certificate, you will need to complete the AFP National Police Check application form:
If you are required to provide a penal clearance certificate (sometimes known as a police certificate) from another country please refer to the following document which provides instructions on obtaining a certificate from an overseas government or law enforcement authority:
Character and police certificate requirements​
Lodge your application at the Hobart office in Tasmania. Provide all relevant documents and pay the visa application charge when you apply. You can pay by credit card, bank cheque or money order made payable to the Department of Home Affairs.
There is more information to help you prepare your application, such as certifying and translating documents into English, communicating with us, using a migration agent, authorising another person to receive information from us, and receiving assistance with your application.​​
After you have lodged your application and documents, we will let you know that we have received your information.
You can provide more information to us, in writing, at any time until a decision is made on the application. If you want to correct information you provided, use:
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If another person gives us information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
You should tell us if your circumstances change. You can do so using the following forms:
See: withdrawing your application
If your visa is granted, you will receive a letter from us detailing:
If your visa is refused, you will receive a letter advising the reasons for the refusal decision. The letter will also advise you whether you can ask for the decision to be reviewed by the Migration Review Tribunal, and explain how to apply for review.
For more information see Migration Review Tribunal .
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. We can make a decision using the information you provide when you lodge your application. It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible with your application.
Provide certified copies of original documents. Do not include original documents unless we specifically ask for them. Police certificates should be original documents. Documents not in English must be accompanied by accredited English translations.
Use this checklist to make sure your application is complete.
Form 1383 Application for a temporary visa for retirees  (423KB PDF)
See: Visa pricing estimator.
3. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Retirement visa (subclass 410). It explains your rights and obligations.
This visa is a temporary visa. It allows you and your partner to:
You and your partner must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
A breach of your visa conditions or breaking Australian laws can result in your visa being cancelled. If this happens you will need to leave Australia.
You must enter Australia before the expiry date given to you in your visa grant notification. If you do not arrive before this date, you will need to obtain a new visa before you can travel.
You need to tell us if your circumstances change. You can use the following forms: