1. Subclass 500
2. Student visa (Subclass 500) (Subclass 500)
Up to 5 years and in line with your enrolment.
From AUD1,600.00, unless exempt.
Eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens can apply for a partial refund of the cost, see Getting a refund.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We are processing all student visa applications under priority order Ministerial Direction No. 107 (325KB PDF). Applications will be assessed in date order in each priority category, with lower priority applications being processed later. We recommend applications be lodged well in advance of course commencement.
Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster.
See all conditions
Note:
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa to study up to 5 years. The type of course and its length will determine the length of stay
Primary school children starting their enrolment in years 1-4 will generally only be granted a student visa for a maximum period of 3 years.
5. Stay longer
To continue studying in Australia, you must apply for a new Student visa.
If your Student visa will expire before your graduation you might be eligible for a Visitor visa (subclass 600). You will need a letter from your education provider with the date of your graduation.
If you hold or held a student visa and completed specific qualifications in Australia in the last six months, you might be eligible for a Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485).
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances. Explore your visa options.
6. Cost
The visa costs from AUD1,600.00 for the main applicant, unless they are exempt.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa.
Eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens can apply for a partial refund of the cost, see Getting a refund.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
7. Students affected by COVID-19
If you held a Student visa on or after 1 February 2020, you may be eligible to have your visa application fee waived so you can submit a further Student visa application. You may be eligible if you:
This measure does not apply to students who are lodging a new student visa application because of ordinary reasons, including if you have:
You must apply for a Student visa to have your application for a fee waiver considered. Attach a completed Form 1545 COVID-19 Impacted Student (229KB PDF) from your education provider.
If you are applying for a fee waiver in Australia, we will not issue a Bridging visa automatically as the fee exemption must be checked first. You do not need to contact the department if you have applied for a fee waiver in Australia and have not been issued a Bridging visa immediately.
This waiver only applies to the visa application charge.
8. Include family
You can include family members when you lodge your visa application. For student visas, your family member is:
We cannot grant a student visa to your child if they have turned 18 years at the time your visa is finalised. They need to apply for their own visa.
You must declare your family members in your student visa application even if they do not plan to travel with you to Australia. If you do not do this, your family members will not be eligible for a student visa to join you in Australia.
Your family members can also apply as a subsequent entrant (at a later time, separate from your application) in ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our requirements for health and character.
Check the annual school costs you will need to pay for any dependent children to go to either public or private schools in Australia.
For more information see ‘Evidence you have enough money for your stay’ section under Gather documents.
9. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. If you are in Australia you must hold an eligible substantive visa. For more information see ‘Have this visa if applying while in Australia’ under Eligibility.
10. Packaged courses
You will need to give us Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for each course. The last course you take as part of the course package is your main course of study. We use your main course of study to work out what financial and English language skills evidence you must give us.
If your visa application includes a package of courses, course gaps must be less than two calendar months, unless the first course finishes at the end of the standard academic year and the next course commences at the beginning of the standard academic year.
For example, the academic year generally ends in November and starts again in February the following year, three to four months is an acceptable gap between courses.
Standard visa grant periods apply to packaged courses.
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We are currently processing all student visa applications by order of priority under the Ministerial Direction No. 107 (325KB PDF). We will continue to assess all applications in date order in each priority category. Visa applications in lower priority will take longer to process.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this is the case.
12. Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
See which conditions will and might be attached to this visa.
13. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If you are a school student (but not participating in a secondary school student exchange program), you must be aged 6 or older to apply for this visa.
You must also be:
You must include evidence of enrolment in study with your student visa application, or your application will not be valid and can't be processed.
You must be enrolled in a full time course registered on the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS).
Applying outside Australia: provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for each course of study with your visa application.
Applying inside Australia: provide a CoE or Letter of Offer for all intended courses. You must provide your CoE before we can grant your visa.
If you are applying for more than 1 course in your student visa application you must include all CoE codes in the application form or your visa period may only consider the duration of the course according to the the CoE provided.
You can apply to take 2 or more courses on your Student visa where one course clearly leads to the next.  Course gaps must be less than two calendar months, unless the first course finishes at the end of the standard academic year and the next course commences at the beginning of the standard academic year.
If you are applying for more than 1 course in your student visa application you must include all CoE codes in the application form or your visa may only cover the CoE provided.
You do not need to provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) if you are:
If you are applying for a student visa and you are under 18 years of age, you must have adequate welfare arrangements in place while you are in Australia.
If you will be 18 years of age when you arrive in Australia, you must tell us as you might not need to provide some of this information.
To learn more, see Welfare arrangements for students under 18.
You might need to provide evidence of your English language skills at the time you submit your visa application. To find out the evidence you need to provide use the Document Checklist tool.
Note: We can ask you for evidence of your English language skill after you have submitted your application, at any time while we are processing your application, even if the Document Checklist tool shows that you don't need to provide evidence of your English language skill when you submit your application.
If you need to provide evidence of your English language skill, you must provide evidence that you:
For more information on the minimum overall band scores you must achieve to meet the Student visa English language requirements go to Gather Documents in the 'Step by Step'.
You must have completed the English language test in either the 2 years before:
Department of Home Affairs does not accept scores from tests that you can take at home or online, such as TOEFL iBT – Home Edition, OET@Home, PTE Academic Online, IELTS Online (General and Academic) and IELTS Indicator.
TOEFL iBT tests that were completed between 26 July 2023 and 4 May 2024 will not be accepted for Australian visa and migration purposes. During this period, the TOEFL iBT test being offered was not an approved test.
From 12 February 2024, we will only accept results from the paper-based Cambridge C1 Advanced test (previously known as Cambridge English: Advanced CAE) for Australian visa and migration purposes.
We will still accept test scores for both C1 Advanced paper-based and computer-based tests taken before 12 February 2024, in the specified validity period.
You do not need to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if one of the following applies:
Note: We may need you to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if you hold a British National Overseas (BNO) passport.
For more information on English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions refer to the Migration (English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions for Subclass 500 (Student) Visa) Instrument (LIN 24/022) 2024.
You and your family members must have and maintain adequate health insurance for the whole of your stay in Australia. To find out the length of coverage you will require, see student visa grant periods.
You and your family members must be covered by Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) from an approved Australian health insurance provider, unless an 'Exception' applies.
Your cover must start from the day you and your family arrive in Australia, not the day your course starts.
If you have been granted a visa and want to travel to Australia before your course begins, the OSHC start date must be the same as the date you arrive, not the date your course starts. Generally this is a minimum of 1 week to 1 month before your course starts.
You must:
You may be refused entry to Australia if you cannot prove you have health insurance in place when you arrive.
Applicants must have OSHC. If your previous visa required you to have health insurance, cover must be continuous with  no gap between your previous health cover and your OSHC.
You do not need to have OSHC if you are:
To get OSHC:
Your education provider or agent might arrange OSHC for you.
If your education provider arranges your OSHC coverage, you will need to know the name of your health insurance provider, the date that your policy starts and finishes and should be aware of the terms and conditions of your policy. Your education provider will also need to include your health insurance information on your Certificate of Enrolment (CoE).
If you arrange OSHC coverage yourself, you will need to know the policy number to include in the visa application.
We will refuse your visa application if you don't give us this information when you apply for your student visa.
If you have a single OSHC policy and you have family members, including children born in Australia after your arrival, consider getting a family policy. Every member of your family must have health insurance.
Any family member who joins you after you arrive in Australia must show us they have OSHC for the duration of their stay in Australia.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.
You can apply in Australia if you hold a substantive visa except for one of these:
If you don’t hold an eligible substantive visa you can apply in 28 days of either:
Note: You cannot make a valid application for a student visa if you do not hold a substantive visa and you have previously been granted a visa based on an application made when you did not hold a substantive visa.
You must have enough money to pay for your stay in Australia. To see the minimum amount of money you need for your visa application go to 'Gather Documents' under Step by Step.
The living costs we ask you to declare and provide with your visa application is the minimum amount of money you need for the visa. Actual living costs vary throughout Australia. They may be much higher than what you need for the visa. We recommend you research the area you intend to live including the cost of living in that area.
You should not rely on work to support yourself or your family while in Australia. The Australian Government Study Australia website provides useful information on accommodation options. It features a cost of living calculator to help you consider other possible costs in addition to the amount required for your visa application.
For more information visit Study Australia.
You must:
For more information, see Genuine Student requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa must meet our character requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we decide on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Outside Australia - Apply for your visa with enough time before your course starts.
In Australia - Allow plenty of time to apply for your next visa, avoid waiting to the last day your current substantive visa expires in case of unexpected complications, as we may not always be able to help you.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You and your family members must hold a valid passport in order to lodge a student visa application.
If you are in Australia and your current passport expires, you will need to renew it before you apply for your student visa.
To see what you need to give us, use the Document Checklist Tool. Before you use this tool please read the disclaimer.
Enter your country of passport and education provider to get an accurate document checklist. Choose the option 'I have not decided on a provider yet' in the tool if you have not yet chosen a provider.
The tool will tell you what you must give us evidence of. If the tool says you need to give us evidence of a certain thing, select 'Show steps' to see what kind of evidence we might accept.
Re-check the document checklist based on the country of passport and education provider just before you submit your application to be sure you have the most current list. The Document Checklist Tool is updated twice a year on 31 March and 30 September.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Attach the required documents according to your situation.
Applying outside Australia
Provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for all intended courses.
Applying inside Australia
Provide a CoE or letter of offer for all intended courses. You must provide the CoEs before the visa can be granted.
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or Australian Department of Defence sponsored
Provide a letter of support
If your letter of support does not say it will meet the living costs and expenses of each secondary applicant, then evidence of sufficient funds is also required.
Secondary exchange student
Provide an Acceptance Advice of Secondary Exchange Student form
Postgraduate research student required to remain in Australia for marking of your thesis
Provide a letter from your education provider.
We will ask you to provide a response, in English, to a set of questions in your online application.  Each question has a 150 word limit addressing the genuine student criteria. There is an additional question if you:
You will also need to attach supporting documents to your application in your ImmiAccount.
See how to provide evidence to address the Genuine Student criteria.
You must provide evidence that you have either obtained a minimum test score in an English language test that has been approved by us or if you fall into an exemption category.
The tables below shows the English language test providers. It includes information on English Language Intensive Courses for Overseas Students (ELICOS). It also states the minimum overall band scores you must achieve to meet the Student visa English language requirement.
*For a list of eligible Pathway programs, see Migration (English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions for Subclass 500 (Student) Visa) Instrument (LIN 24/022) 2024..
Note: For packaged courses ie. ELICOS and a Bachelor course, 10 weeks and 20 weeks of ELICOS is a ‘minimum’ requirement to meet the IELTS threshold. For example, an applicant who has enrolled in at least 10 weeks of ELICOS packaged with a principal course must have achieved the required IELTS (or equivalent) test score of 5.5. If enrolled in at least 20 weeks of ELICOS packaged with a principal course, the applicant must have achieved IELTS (or equivalent) test score of 5.0.
For more information on this requirement refer to Eligibility.
If the document checklist requires you to provide evidence of your financial capacity, you must attach evidence with your visa application. If you don’t provide this evidence, we may refuse your application without asking you for more information.
If the document checklist does not require you to provide evidence of your financial capacity, we may still ask you to provide this evidence while we are processing your application.
The living cost we ask you to declare and provide with your visa application is the minimum amount of money you need for the purpose of the visa. Actual living costs vary throughout Australia and may be much higher than what you need for the visa. We recommend you research the area you intend to live including the cost of living in that area
There are options to prove you have enough money for your stay. These can include evidence of:
Alternatively, you can provide evidence that your parents or your partner had a personal annual income of at least AUD87,856 in the 12 months immediately before you apply. If you bring family members, your parents’ or partner’s income must be at least AUD102,500 in the 12 months immediately before you apply.
If both your parents are working we can consider their combined income. Provide evidence of your parents’ or partner’s income in the form of official government documents such as tax assessments less than 12 months old. We won’t accept bank statements or direct evidence from an employer.
At a minimum, you must have enough money to pay for:
Use the following information to work out how much money you need for the visa. To calculate pro rata costs, divide the annual cost by 365 and multiply the result by the number of days you intend to stay in Australia.
12-month living costs are for:
Use the first 12 months of your course fees. If your course is 12 months or less, use the total cost. Deduct any costs you have already paid – you must provide evidence you have paid them, such as a receipt or Confirmation of Enrolment.
If you are in Australia and your course has already started, calculate the course fee for 12 months starting on the date you lodge your application.
If you are including any school-age children in your application, add schooling costs of at least AUD13,502 per year for each child. Costs vary between states, territories and schools in Australia. You are responsible for finding out how much the child’s schooling will cost.
You don’t have to provide evidence of schooling costs if you:
You must provide evidence the child is enrolled.
As a guide, when you calculate how much money you need, include:
Include the costs and expenses of the primary applicant. For family members also applying for the visa, include:
Secondary exchange students can prove they have enough money for their stay by providing a completed Acceptance Advice of Secondary Exchange Students (AASES) form.
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) students can prove they have enough money for their stay by providing a letter of support from DFAT. They must also provide proof of the financial capacity of any family members travelling with them.
Department of Defence students can prove they have enough money for their stay by providing a letter of support from the Department of Defence. They must also provide proof of the financial capacity of any family members travelling with them.
Family members who apply to join you later must also, at a minimum, show us they have enough money to cover:
If we ask you to provide evidence of financial capacity you must also prove you have access to it.
If someone else is providing you funds, give us:
If the financial support provided involves a business, show us proof the business is operating.
If you are providing evidence of deposits of money, explain their source.
Any education loan to cover your tuition or living costs should be paid out according to the agreement between you, the bank and the education provider. If you receive any payments before we make a decision on your application, give us evidence including the terms of the loan and the full amount you will be paid.
If you are relying on another kind of loan, provide:
The best evidence you can provide of genuine access to funds if you are relying on a loan is evidence of disbursement.
Let your provider know any conditions on your education loan. Some loans offer deferred repayment against your future earnings. These loans can be conditional on you studying only a specified course with a certain provider.
The following student visa applicants are not required to pay a visa application charge (VAC):
If you are not sure, you should not claim exemption. We will not accept your application if you are not eligible and this may have consequences if you are in Australia. An invalid application outcome could affect your visa status and you may not be eligible if your visa has already expired to apply for a further visa.
Note:
You must include proof of paid adequate health insurance for the proposed duration of your visa see student visa grant periods.
Health insurance must be Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) covering everyone included in your application.
If you don’t provide your OSHC in your application form, we will refuse your visa application.
If you or your agent have organised OSHC, and included this information on your CoE, you will need to include the name of your health insurance provider, the dates your policy starts and finishes and the policy number in your application form.
If your education provider arranged your OSHC, you will need to include the name of your health insurance provider and the dates your policy starts and finishes in your application.You do not need to include the policy number in your application.
Make sure there is no gap in your coverage if you are studying with more than one education provider and both providers arrange OSHC for you. The second policy must begin as soon as the first expires.
Note: If you are from Norway, Sweden or Belgium, you might not have to obtain OSHC. See information on exceptions in the 'Have adequate health insurance' section on the Eligibility page.
If you are applying from outside Australia and you are travelling from, or spent time in, a country considered at risk of polio, you need to give us a polio vaccination certificate.
See Threats to public health for the current countries of risk.
If you are applying for a student visa and you are under 18 years old, you must have appropriate welfare arrangements in place. This must cover your period of stay or until you turn 18 years, whichever is first. You must also have consent from your parent(s) or guardian(s) to travel to and reside in Australia as an under 18 student.
If your nominated guardian is applying for a Subclass 590 Student Guardian visa, both applications should be made at the same time.
Every applicant under the age of 18 must provide a completed and signed consent Form 1229 (276KB PDF) or a statutory declaration from each parent or legal guardian with their consent. If you cannot provide consent form both parents or guardians, you will need to provide evidence that one party has sole custody.
You also need to provide:
To show your welfare arrangements you must either:
To nominate a guardian and for your student visa to be valid, you must attach a completed Form 157N Student Guardianship Arrangements to your applications. If your nominated guardian is applying for a student guardian (subclass TU-590) visa, both applications should be made at the same time.
A nominated guardian must be:
A nominated guardian can have:
For this visa, a relative is a:
You must include in your application:
For more information see Welfare arrangements for students under 18.
Provide your partner's:
If you are married, provide your marriage certificate or other evidence that your marriage is valid in Australia.
If you are a de facto partner, provide proof of your de facto relationship.
This proof should show that:
Additional proof of a de facto relationships
In addition to documents proving your relationship provide evidence that:
For every dependant child under the age of 18 years who is applying with you, provide:
If somebody other than your biological parents has legal guardianship over you (for example, adoptive parents or a court-appointed guardian), you must provide proof of their legal guardianship. This can be adoption papers or parental court orders, if applicable.
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
You must give us evidence of education for any dependant child who has turned 5, but has not turned 18 years.
This can be a letter from the school (public or private) or from the State/Territory education department where you will be studying, and include enrolment details and fees paid.
Only unmarried children under the age of 18 can be included as a dependant in your application.
If you have a child 18 or over, or a child who will turn 18 years before your student visa is granted they will need to apply for their own visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be legible.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.
You should submit a complete and decision-ready application. Applications that are lodged without relevant documentation may be refused or delayed. The application form in ImmiAccount tells you what documents to attach.
You must hold an eligible substantive visa, or apply:
You cannot apply for a Student visa in Australia if you hold one of these:
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Paying the application charge
When you submit your application you must:
If your visa cancellation was set aside by the Tribunal you can’t apply online.  Instead submit a ImmiAccount technical support form.
Note: a valid application must be made within the eligibility timeframe as late applications will not be accepted.
See how to resolve error messages when submitting online.
Note:
See what you can and must do after you apply.
You should respond to any requests for information promptly. You do not need to wait until the deadline to respond to a Departmental request for further information.  You should also regularly log into your ImmiAccounts to check for messages from the Department and respond promptly.
You should avoid booking travel before your visa has been finalised.
Do not call if it is within standard processing times. We can't give any further updates on the application's progress. You can see if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics. Most applicants will be advised immediately after submitting an application if you need to provide biometrics. You will receive a letter and will also be able to see this request in your ImmiAccount. You will be given 14 days to provide biometrics so it is important to arrange an appointment quickly using the instructions in the request letter.
You must provide biometrics before travelling to Australia.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, check ImmiAccount to find out if you need them.
See the medical referral letter with your Health Assessment Portal (HAP) ID and further directions in ImmiAccount.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. You cannot travel on the BVA - there is no right of return on this visa; it cancels on departure.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure your visa allows you to return. If you have a Bridging visa A, it will cease if you leave Australia.
If you have a BVA and substantial reasons for travel, then a Bridging visa B (BVB) enables return to Australia while your application is being processed.
To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
Lodging a complete application will ensure your visa is not delayed. If you did not attach all your documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount. The Department may finalise your application based on the information you provided when you first lodged your visa, so it is recommended that you lodge a complete application. You can attach a maximum of 60 documents. We might also ask you to provide more information.
Your eligible family members can:
Declare all family members on your application, even if they do not plan to travel with you to Australia. If you do not do this, your family members will not be eligible for a student visa to join you in Australia.
If you did not declare a family member and they need to join you in Australia at a later date, you will need to apply for a new student visa including them and explain why they were not included on your application. An exception to this is if they became your family members after your student visa was granted and before a subsequent application is made.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
Or
If you currently have a visa application in ImmiAccount that is not yet finalised, sign into ImmiAccount and select 'Update Details' from the Menu option.
Choose 'Notification of incorrect answers' from the list and provide the correct information.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
Education provider default occurs when a registered education provider in Australia:
If after lodging your student visa application your provider has defaulted, you will need to provide a new CoE for a new education provider.
See more about education provider defaults.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
When you have your Student (subclass 500) visa, you may want to consider withdrawing any other undecided visa applications you have lodged with us.
If you are granted another substantive visa your Student (subclass 500) visa will cease.
To withdraw any other visa application, you must advise us in writing that you want to withdraw an application.
You must have:
For information on what to expect at the border and what you can bring into Australia, see Entering Australia.
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members who apply with you must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements see your visa grant letter or  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO)
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia until the date we have told you. The student visa grant period will depend on the type of course and its length.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. To continue studying in Australia, you must apply for a new Student visa.
If you want to stay longer without studying, you must apply for a new visa.
See your options.
If your student visa will expire before your graduation, you might be able to apply for another visa that meets your circumstances such as a visitor visa. You will need a letter from your education provider which states the date of your graduation.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Student visa holders cannot work in Australia before the student has started their course of study.
Student visa holders and their family members can work up to 48 hours a fortnight when their course of study or training is in session.
Students who have started a masters degree by research or doctoral degree can work more than 48 hours a fortnight.
Students must ensure they are aware of any changes to visa conditions, including work rights.
To see the visa conditions that affect your work situation, see VEVO.
You can include a family member in your application or they can apply to join you later as a subsequent applicant in ImmiAccount provided:
Existing family members must have been declared at the time of you lodged your application
If a person became your family member after you lodged your application and before you were granted the visa, you must have informed us in writing before your visa was granted.
For student visas, your family member is:
We cannot grant a student visa to your child if they have turned 18 years at the time your visa is finalised. Instead they need to apply for their own visa.
Where subsequent entrants are siblings (two or more children with no parent), they must make separate student visa applications and each pay the base application charge to join their parent.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our requirements for health and character and be a genuine temporary entrant.
If you are bringing school aged children, check the annual school costs you will need to pay for them to go to either public or private schools in Australia.
Find out what to do if you have a child.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
Find out what to do if there is a change in your study situation. This includes:
Your visa may also be subject to visa conditions that require you to seek permission before making certain changes to your study. To check your visa conditions use VEVO.
If you apply for a student visa after 1 July 2022, your student visa will be subject to visa condition 8208. For information on visa condition 8208, see your visa conditions.
Education provider default occurs when a registered education provider in Australia:
If after lodging your student visa application your provider has defaulted, you will need to provide a new CoE for a new education provider.
See more about education provider default.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.