1. Subclass 030
2. Bridging visa C (BVC) (Subclass 030) (Subclass 030)
Temporarily
Free
There are no processing times available for this visa.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. About this visa
This is a temporary visa. Nearly all bridging visas are applied for automatically as part of applying for a substantive visa. We may grant you a BVC if you have made a valid application in Australia for a substantive visa but you do not already hold a substantive visa.
A separate application for a BVC might be necessary where:
You can't use a bridging visa while you wait for a citizenship application to be decided.
4. In effect
A BVC comes ‘into effect’ when:
Visa holders must adhere to the conditions imposed on their visa. Where you are granted a BVC, you will be notified about the conditions that apply.
If you hold a substantive visa when your BVC is granted, you must continue to comply with the conditions of the substantive visa. When your substantive visa ceases, the conditions of your BVC will apply.
The BVC does not support return travel to Australia.
Remaining lawful during judicial review
If a merits review tribunal upholds our decision to refuse your substantive visa application and you apply for judicial review, you will need to apply for a bridging visa to maintain your lawful status during the judicial review proceedings. If you have applied for judicial review you can only apply for a bridging visa by webform.
5. Working in Australia
The initial BVC we grant when you apply for your substantive visa will not let you work, unless the substantive visa you have applied for is one of the following SkillSelect visas:
If your BVC does not let you work, or has restrictions on working, you can apply for another BVC that lets you work. To be considered for a BVC that lets you work, you will usually have to demonstrate that you are experiencing financial hardship.
We will assess your circumstances in relation to your claim that you need to work. If you do not meet the requirements for work and you are still eligible for a BVC, we will grant you a new BVC with the same work prevention or restriction condition that was on your previous BVC.
If you are a Protection visa applicant and you apply for a BVC for judicial review, we can only grant you a new BVC that allows you to work if the last BVC you held allowed you to work.
If you are a SkillSelect visa applicant and you are granted a BVC for judicial review, this visa will not initially allow you to work. To be considered for a BVC that lets you work, you will need to make a further BVC application and demonstrate that you are experiencing financial hardship.
If you are not a Protection or SkillSelect visa applicant and you apply for a BVC for judicial review you will only be granted a new BVC that does not allow you to work, even if your last BVC allowed you to work.
6. With this visa you can
Stay lawfully in Australia until your substantive visa application is finally determined, or it granted in association with judicial proceedings, until those proceedings are complete.
A BVC will end immediately if the following situations occur:
7. How long you can stay
In all other situations one of the following outcomes will determine when your BVC ceases:
Once you have been notified of an outcome you can see exactly how long you can stay in Australia in VEVO.
Your BVC will cease 35 calendar days after:
You BVC will cease 28 calendar days after:
Your BVC will cease 28 days after the date that one of the following happens:
8. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you wish to stay longer.
Explore your visa options.
9. Include family
If you and your family have applied together for a substantive visa in Australia, you might have also applied together for a BVC. Check if family members already hold a BVC in VEVO.
If you apply separately for a BVC, you can include members of the family unit in your BVC application, if they are included in your substantive visa application.
We will assess each member of the family unit's application and decide which bridging visa they can be granted.
10. Cost
Free
11. Apply from
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when the BVC application is submitted and granted.
12. Your obligations
You and anyone included in your application must:
See the conditions that will and might be applied to a BVC.
13. Travel
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it.  A BVC that is in effect will cease upon departure from Australia. To see if your BVC is in effect, see VEVO.
As BVC holder, we cannot grant you a Bridging visa B (BVB) that allows you to travel and return to Australia whilst your substantive visa application is being processed.
If you leave Australia and you do not hold another visa that allows you to return, you will have to apply for and be granted a substantive visa before you can return to Australia. There is no guarantee that you will be granted a visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
These are some of the common eligibility criteria:
You must not hold a Bridging visa E (BVE) and you must not have held a BVE since you last held a substantive visa.
When you lodged your application for a substantive visa, you must not have held a substantive visa.
You will need to be in Australia when you apply.
You must have made a valid application for a substantive visa that has not been finally determined or you have made an application for judicial review of a decision relating to your substantive visa application, within the prescribed timeframe, and the judicial review proceedings have not been completed, and you previously held a BVC in relation to the substantive visa application.
You must apply within the prescribed timeframe.
You must apply for review within the prescribed timeframe. 
If you have applied within the prescribed timeframe, you may not need to apply for a further Bridging Visa.
The timeframe for applying for judicial review is 35 days from the date of the Tribunal’s decision.
If you have not applied for judicial review within the statutory time limits, this may affect your eligibility to apply for a further Bridging Visa.
You can be any age to apply for this visa.
You will need to meet our character requirement.
For all criteria see Schedule 2 in Migration Regulations 1994.
Check if you already hold a BVC with VEVO.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather the documents you need for your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide proof to support your claims of hardship if you are applying to change to your visa conditions.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited, but on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
How you apply for a BVC depends on:
You must apply for the BVC in the same way you applied for your substantive visa.
If you applied for your new substantive visa through ImmiAccount, you must apply for your BVC application through ImmiAccount.
If you applied for your new substantive visa by paper, you must submit your BVC application by webform.
If you have applied for a review of a decision about your substantive visa application, you must submit your BVC application by webform.
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when the BVC application is lodged.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide accurate information.
If you applied for your substantive visa through ImmiAccount
You must apply for the BVC through ImmiAccount:
If you applied for your substantive visa by paper
You must complete and submit your BVC application Form 1005 by webform.
If you have applied for review of a decision on your substantive visa application
You must complete and submit your BVC application Form 1005 by webform
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will tell you when we have received your application and documents.
We do not give updates on application processing times.
Wait for us to contact you.
If you leave Australia while your BVC is in effect you will not be able to return. A BVC that is in effect will cease upon departure from Australia. To see if your BVC is in effect, see VEVO.
You cannot apply for a Bridging visa B (BVB) to travel if you hold a BVC.
If you are applying through ImmiAccount and did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
If you are applying by webform, you must attach all documents before you submit your BVC application. You cannot attach extra documents after you have submitted your application.
We may also ask you for more information. You should provide that information in the way we ask you to in the request letter.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your bridging visa and your substantive visa application. It is important to submit your application early. This ensures enough time for us to process your bridging visa application.
If you and your family have made a combined application for a substantive visa in Australia, you may have also applied for a Bridging visa. Check if family members already hold a Bridging visa in VEVO.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Tell us as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Tell us if you:
If you applied for your substantive visa online upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount
If you applied for your substantive visa by paper form, send your documents to the office assessing your visa application. You can find this information on the acknowledgement letter under Contact Us.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Some of the things you need to tell us about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application.
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when we make a decision.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the email with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
To see when you must leave after you are notified of an outcome, use VEVO.
To see your specific conditions, use VEVO.
If you are granted a BVC that does not permit work, you can apply for a further Bridging Visa with no conditions if you can demonstrate financial hardship.
We will assess your circumstances in relation to your claim that you need to work. If you do not meet the requirements for work, and you are still eligible for a BVC, we will grant you a new BVC with the same work prevention or restriction condition that was on your previous BVC.
If you are a Protection visa applicant and you apply for a BVC for judicial review, we can only grant you a new BVC that allows you to work if the last BVC you held allowed you to work.
If you are a SkillSelect visa applicant and you are granted a BVC for judicial review, this visa will not initially allow you to work. To be considered for a BVC that lets you work, you will need to make a further BVC application and demonstrate that you are experiencing financial hardship.
If you are not a Protection or SkillSelect visa applicant and you apply for a BVC for judicial review you will only be granted a new BVC that does not allow you to work, even if your last BVC allowed you to work.
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it. To see if your BVC is in effect, see VEVO. A BVC that is in-effect will cease upon departure from Australia
Some of the things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it. To see if your BVC is in effect, see VEVO.  A BVC that is in-effect will cease upon departure from Australia
At the Border
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.