1. Subclass 858
2. Global Talent visa (Subclass 858) (Subclass 858)
Permanently
From AUD4,840.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Newly arrived residents may need to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. Visa pathways
The Global Talent visa is for the brightest and best global talent. It comprises of two visa pathways:
The Global Talent pathway provides priority processing for highly skilled applicants who:
Before applying for the Global Talent pathway, you should submit an Expression of Interest against relevant requirements for priority processing. If successful, you will receive a unique reference and identifier to use when making a Global Talent (subclass 858) visa application.
More information on the Global Talent pathway, including Expression of Interest requirements and submission process, can be found at EOI requirements.
The Distinguished Talent pathway is for extremely talented applicants who have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievements working in sectors other than a Minister's defined sector for either a profession, sport, the arts, or academia and research. An expression of Interest is not required for this pathway.
Applicants can apply for the Global Talent pathway and the Distinguished Talent pathway online via ImmiAccount.
4. With this visa you can
Newly arrived residents may need to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
5. Apply from
You must either be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance, when you apply and when this visa is decided.
6. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
7. Include family
You may include members of the family unit when you apply. You can also add members of your family to your application at any time before a decision is made on your application.
If you are under 18 years old, you can only include your parents and members of the family unit of that parent.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements regardless of whether they are accompanying you to Australia.
For more information on health requirements, refer to Meeting our health requirement.
For more information on character requirements, refer to Character requirements for visas.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application please tell us the reason why.
8. Cost
For the cost of the visa for the main applicant, refer to Fees and charges for visas.
There is an extra charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
You may have to pay an extra fee for any applicant aged 18 years or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. We will tell you when to pay the second instalment. For more information on the second installment charge, refer to Fees and charges for visas.
To work out what your visa will cost, you can use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs, such as health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
For information on the cost of health checks, refer to Your health examinations.
For information on the cost of biometrics, refer to biometrics.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis. Actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
10. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will contribute to Australia in your area of expertise.
11. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Your talent and achievements must be attested to by a nominator who has a national reputation in the same area as you, and is one of the following:
Where appropriate, your nomination should come from the peak Australian body in your area.
At the time you lodge your Global Talent visa application, you must provide a completed Nomination for Global Talent (Form 1000) (217KB PDF).
A completed Form 1000 means that all applicable questions have been answered in accordance with the instructions on the form, and signed by the nominator.
Nominators cannot be added or changed after you lodge your visa application.
You must have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievement in one of the following:
This means that you:
You must also participate in an area that is recognised and accepted in Australia and has international standing.
This means that you are active and still currently outstanding in your area, and have a record of recent achievements.
Your contribution may be:
You must contribute to the nation as a whole.
You must demonstrate that you would be able to find work, or become independently established, in your area of expertise in Australia without difficulty.
You can be any age to apply for this visa.
If you are under 18 years old, or are 55 years or older when you apply, you must be of exceptional benefit to the Australian community.
The exceptional benefit to the Australian community should be ongoing and sustained, and realised shortly after migration.
The exceptional benefit may include:
If you are outside Australia at the time you apply, you do not need to hold a specific visa to apply for this visa. However, if you are in Australia at the time you apply, you must hold one of the following:
If you currently hold, or your last substantive visa held was either:
You must have held that visa for at least 3 years at the time you apply.
Applicants aged 18 years and older at the time of application, must provide evidence of having at least functional English.
If you do not have at least functional English you must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge.
If you would prefer to pay the second instalment over providing evidence of having at least functional English, please upload advice via your ImmiAccount.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members not coming with you to Australia may also need to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members not coming with you to Australia must also meet our character requirement.
You or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) cannot owe the Australian government money. Any debt to the Australian government must be paid, or have a payment arrangement in place before a visa can be granted.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must have read, or had explained to you, the Life in Australia booklet. You must also confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you sign an Australian Values Statement.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
If you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, in some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa. See Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
The Global Talent visa comprises two visa pathways:
To apply for the Global Talent pathway, you must first submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) and have received an invitation to apply.
An invitation is not required to apply for the Distinguished Talent pathway.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to include documents to support the claims you make in your application and show you meet the visa criteria. This includes evidence of your achievements in an eligible field.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Include the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also include:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, you must provide proof. This can include divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
You must prove evidence that your achievements place you among the best in an eligible field.
Examples of evidence include:
The evidence supplied to support your record of achievement must also show recent prominence in the field.
If you are under 18 years old, or are 55 years or older when you apply, you must provide evidence you would be of exceptional benefit to the Australian community. Examples of evidence could include:
Provide evidence of nomination:
If you are endorsed by the Prime Minister’s Special Envoy or supported by the Minister or Director-General responsible for national security, you do not need a nominator, and do not need to provide Form 1000 with your application. Instead, you must provide evidence of the relevant endorsement or support.
You must prove you can work or support yourself in your field of achievement.
Provide:
You can't include income from work outside your field.
You and any family members above 16 years of age who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Required evidence of character includes:
You may be required to complete and provide the following forms:
Some countries require a letter from the Department to issue police certificates. The Department will provide these letters when required.
If applying under the Global Talent pathway, provide police certificates with your application, or as soon as possible after submitting your application.
If applying under the Distinguished Talent pathway, await a request from the Department before obtaining police certificates.
If experiencing delays, please upload evidence to your ImmiAccount.
Give proof you have at least functional English.
Applicants aged 18 years and older at the time of application must provide evidence of having at least functional English. You must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge if you do not have at least functional English.
You must provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
We will tell you when to pay this.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationships, include either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must give evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, include:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Or, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you must give evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for more information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you must show evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
You must show that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could include:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photographs must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Include a digital photograph of each person included in the application.
Photographs should have:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You can apply for this visa online.
Give accurate information in your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information
We will let you know when we have received your application.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If applying under the Global Talent pathway, complete health examinations as soon as possible after lodging your application.
If applying under the Distinguished Talent pathway, await a request from the Department before completing health examinations.
We will let you know if you need to give biometrics.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, attach them in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to submit more information. We are not obliged to do so and may decide on your application without requesting more documents.
We do not give updates on applications.
See if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount or wait for us to contact you.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. To be granted this visa you must either be in Australia or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we make a decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your visa, check VEVO.
If you apply for the visa while in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you may have been granted a Bridging visa. If your visa expires before we decide on your application, that bridging visa will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you:
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply, but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and attach it to your ImmiAccount.
If you are under 18 years of age members of the family unit can include
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answer(s) (168KB PDF) and attach it to your ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do when your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions use VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. The subclass 444 visa is not a permanent visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might reduce your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and to show your visa conditions to someone, use VEVO.
We expect that you will use this visa to contribute to Australia in your field of expertise.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day you entered Australia on this visa.
Check the travel validity of your Global Talent (subclass 858) visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.