1. Subclass 866
2. Protection visa (Subclass 866) (Subclass 866)
Permanently
AUD45.00
Processing times for this visa are unavailable.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Free legal advice and help with your Protection visa application is available, See: Free legal help
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long can you stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become an Australian permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For Australian citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
5. Including family members
Members of the same family unit may apply together on the same application. They must:
Members of the same family unit are:
The family head can be you. It can also be someone else in your family who has not applied for this visa.
A dependent child is a child or step-child who is under 18 years old. A dependent child can be 18 years old or older if they are:
We do not consider a child or step-child of any age to be a dependent child if they are currently married, engaged to be married or in a de facto relationship.
Children who are not dependent children must apply for their own visa
Other dependent relatives may include relatives such as the family head’s:
We consider a relative to be a dependent relative of the family head if they:
Members of the same family unit applying for this visa must meet our health, character and security requirements.
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision on your application, the child will be taken to be included in that application. You must tell us as soon as possible by:
If a child is born in Australia, we automatically grant them the same visas their parents hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child might be an Australian citizen by birth.
6. Cost
AUD45.00
7. Apply from
You must be in Australia when you apply for the visa.
8. Processing times
We aim to finalise protection visa applications as quickly as possible. This is a very complex process and will take some time. You can assist us in finalising your application by responding to any requests from us within the specified timeframes.
Your application can take longer to process if:
9. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
10. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia.
If you want to travel outside Australia, after we grant the visa, you should first contact any Australian Passport Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to  apply for a travel document
We recommend that you do not use the passport or travel document issued to you by your country of nationality. If you do so, we may consider that you are no longer in need of protection from your home country and we may cancel your visa.
Travel condition 8559 applies to this visa.
If we grant you this visa, you and members of your same family unit, must not enter the country or countries from which we granted you protection unless we approve that entry in writing before you travel.
We will only give you approval to enter the country from which we granted you protection if there are compassionate or compelling circumstances justifying your travel.
If you enter the country from which we granted you protection without written approval, even for a short time, you will breach condition 8559. As a result, we might cancel your visa and the visas of members of your family unit.
Before you travel, see condition 8559.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your travel document or ImmiCard. You will not get a label in your travel document.
You must have arrived in Australia on a valid visa and be immigration cleared on arrival.
You can't make a valid application for this visa if you are an unauthorised maritime arrival.
As defined by the Migration Act 1958 (Migration Act), in order to engage Australia’s protection obligations you must:
Australia must not return people to their home country where there is a risk that the person may suffer harm because they engage Australia's protection obligations.
To find out what it means to be a refugee and meet the complementary protection criteria see Australia’s protection obligations.
We may require documents as evidence of your identity, nationality or citizenship with your application. It is your responsibility to cooperate and provide this evidence so identity checks can be completed.
We may ask you for biometrics (a scan of your fingerprints and a digital photograph of your face) as part of your application.
We will use the information collected about your identity when assessing your claims for protection and completing character and security checks.
You can't make a valid permanent protection visa application if you:
The Minister has the power to lift any application bar if it is determined to be in the public interest.
We will let you know if an application bar affects your Permanent Protection visa application.
You must not hold or ever held any of the visas listed below:
As part of the application process, we will assess whether you meet Australia’s security requirements for the grant of a protection visa.
You must undergo health examinations . This will protect your health and the health of the Australian community.
These examinations are conducted by Bupa Medical Visa Services.
We will give you a health identifier (HAP ID) and information about how to arrange your health examinations after you have lodged your visa application.
You must meet certain character requirements.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
Check that you are eligible. You can then:
Free legal advice and help with your Protection visa application is available, See: Free legal help
Only certain people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. We can make a decision on your application using the information you provide when you lodge your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you don't provide true information.
It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible in your application. You should ensure that your application is truthful and complete. We can make a decision using only the information you provide when you submit your application.
You can find a list of documents that must be included with your application in the online application form in ImmiAccount.
You must provide all relevant documents and attach the relevant fees to pay the visa application charge when you apply. See How to pay.
You must provide colour scans or photos of original and translated documents of identity, nationality and citizenship such as:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you can't provide these items, provide a statement with your application to explain why you have no travel or identity documents.
You must answer all the questions on the application form about your claims for protection. If you don't have enough space, you can submit additional information and attach it to the application.
When preparing your claims for protection, you should think about the following questions:
We will use this information to assess whether you engage Australia's protection obligations.
You should provide with your application any documents or evidence that you think will support your claims for protection. All relevant documents should be attached in ImmiAccount.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (e.g. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships between each applicant).
Provide military service records or discharge papers if you, or any other person included in the application, served in the armed forces of any country.
You must provide a police certificate from each country you have lived in for 12 months or more during the past 10 years after you turned 16 years of age (other than a country from which you are claiming protection).
Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you to.
Provide a copy of any visas or residence permits you and each person included in the application hold.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (eg. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships between each applicant).
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application. You do not need to have any documents certified.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photographs must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Ensure that you save photographs under the name of the person in the photograph. Clearly label all other files in English.
Attach:
Learn more about attaching documents.
You must tell the truth in your application. We may question your credibility and refuse your application for a Protection visa if you provide incorrect information on purpose.
If your migration agent completes your application form, you must read and understand all the information that is included in the form before signing it and before signing any statutory declaration you make. You are responsible for any claims made in the form. It is very important that you do not sign blank pages or documents even if you are asked to do so.
It is important that you include all details about your claims for protection and your identity, nationality or citizenship in the form. It is also important that you provide supporting documentation relating to your protection claims and your identity, nationality or citizenship.
The form asks for information about your education, work, travel, relationship and address history. Make sure you include all information, so that there are no gaps in the timelines. For example, if you were unemployed for a period, put this on the form to explain the gap between your jobs.
Protection visa applications must be lodged online through ImmiAccount. When you lodge online you can:
To apply online, follow these steps:
The online form will guide you to answer the questions we need from you.
It has help text if you need support. When you finish your online application, you will come to a page that will prompt you to attach documents and make payment online. You can save your application at any page and go back to it when you are ready.
Once you have submitted your application online, you will be able to check the status of your application through ImmiAccount.
If you have difficulties lodging your application online, the ImmiAccount front page provides information about planned and unplanned system outages. You may need to return to ImmiAccount at a later time to complete your application. For help and support for technical issues with ImmiAccount refer to technical help.
The online application form asks if you agree to the department communicating with you via email. This is the department’s preferred and fastest method of communication. If you do not agree to email communication, we will send you information by post, which is slower. Your application may take longer to finalise if we need to contact you about it by post.
If you have already applied and you want us to communicate with you by email but you did not select this option in your application, complete Form 1193 Communicating by email with the Department (127KB PDF).
We will let you know when we have received your application by sending you an acknowledgement letter.
We can’t give updates on the processing status of an application.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
We may grant you a bridging visa that allows you to stay lawfully in Australia while we process your Permanent Protection visa (subclass 866) application.
The type of bridging visa we may grant you and whether you can work in Australia while holding this visa depends on a number of factors.
We will let you know when you need to arrange your health exams. We will give you a health identifier (HAP ID) and information about how to arrange your health exams.
You and any family members in Australia included in your application will need to provide biometrics. We will contact you to tell you when.
We will take a digital photograph of your face and a scan of your fingerprints.
If you do not let us collect this information:
See more information about how we collect biometrics.
Waivers can apply in exceptional circumstances and we will consider as required.
If you are younger than 18 years of age, a parent, guardian or other adult (such as a relative or friend) must give their permission for us to take your photograph or your fingerprints.
We will not take fingerprints of people who are:
We will not take facial images of people who are younger than 5 years of age.
An incapable person is someone who is not able to understand why they need to provide their photograph or fingerprints. This includes people who have an intellectual disability.
We will contact you if we require you to attend an interview. The interview is to discuss your protection visa application. It is also an opportunity for you to clarify the claims in your application.
However, we may make our decision on the information provided in your visa application and you may not get another opportunity to present these claims. That is why it is important that you provide all claims, supporting documentation and evidence when you submit your application.
We conduct most protection visa interviews via videoconference. If we invite you to attend an interview, you will be provided with instructions on how to join the videoconference. If we conduct the interview in person, we will provide details of the relevant office.
At interview you need to give us all the information we need to make a decision about your visa application.
We might ask you about:
You must make every reasonable effort to attend your scheduled interview. Let us know as soon as possible if there are any reasons why you can’t attend your interview. We may consider if it is possible to reschedule it.
If you do not attend your scheduled interview, we can decide your protection visa application on the information available at the time.
It is important that you provide all claims, supporting documentation and evidence when you submit your application. You can provide more information about your claims or your application before we make our decision. An officer may decide on your application with no further contact.
If you want to provide more information before your interview, submit it at least 5 working days before the interview via ImmiAccount .
If you submit information less than 5 working days before the interview, we will still consider it. The officer may need more time for this, and your interview may not proceed as advised. The officer may cancel the interview and seek more information from you in writing.
Please bring the following documents to the interview:
Bring English translations of all documents. Translations must be certified by a translator accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
An officer from the Department will attend the interview. Your migration agent or representative can attend the interview, if you have one.
If you need an interpreter, we will provide one. The interpreter is not allowed to disclose anything they hear during the interview. They can only assist with language interpretation. They are not involved in the decision made on your application.
You may be able to bring a support person, such as a friend or relative, to the interview. At least 2 working days before the interview, contact the officer on your 'request to attend interview' letter to ask for permission. This person should provide photograph identification to prove their identity.
You should make childcare arrangements for your children while you attend the interview, as this will allow you to speak with our officer uninterrupted.
You should be ready 15 minutes before your scheduled interview. We will give you information explaining Australia's protection obligations.
Interviews are audio-recorded. Our officer will discuss this with you. They will ask your permission to record the interview as an accurate record of the discussion. We will keep the recording confidential. The officer making the decision will consider the recording, along with all other information you have provided.
The Privacy Act 1988 protects your personal information, including the information you provide at the interview. Before your interview you should read the information in Form 1442i - Privacy notice (168KB PDF).
At the interview, the interviewing officer will:
It is important that you tell the truth during the protection visa process. You must give us clear and complete answers, and explain all of the reasons why you are seeking protection in Australia. You must give enough evidence to establish your protection claims. At the interview, you can change any information you have given before.
Giving false or misleading information is a serious offence in Australian law. You may be subject to criminal penalties and we may refuse your application.
You can provide more information to us, in writing, at any time until we make a decision on your application.
If you did not provide all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If we receive information from another person that could result in the refusal of your visa, we will give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
If you have submitted a valid application, you might be able to get financial or other assistance from the Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) program.
To access public healthcare, enrol in Medicare. Take your 'Acknowledgement' letter and supporting documents to a Medicare service centre.
If you want to add family members after you submit your application, you can only add:
You can only add them after you submit your application if:
To add a family member, complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF). Attach this form and evidence of relationship documents to ImmiAccount.
Provide any documents/evidence to support the relationship between each person in the application (eg. birth certificates, notarial certificates, marriage certificates, financial documents and undertakings for de facto relationships, financial documents to evidence that dependants over the age of 18 are dependent on you, and any other evidence to support relationships between each applicant).
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision, the child will be taken to be included in the application, unless they are an Australian citizen at birth. You must tell us of the child's birth as soon as possible by:
If your child is born in Australia, we automatically grant them the same visa you hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child might be an Australian citizen by birth.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and upload it to ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will send you a visa grant notification letter. Your letter will tell you:
You should keep a copy of this letter in a safe place for your reference.
If we refuse your visa application, we will send you a refusal notification letter. Your letter will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You do not have a lawful right to stay in Australia if:
You must return home or to another country where you have right of entry.
If you do not depart voluntarily and become unlawful in Australia, we will take steps to remove you from Australia.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel condition 8559 applies to this visa.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You and your eligible family members can obtain an ImmiCard.
An ImmiCard is an official, secure immigration credential. It contains a photograph and personal details such as family name, given names, date of birth and gender.
ImmiCards also have a unique number linked to biometric and visa details in our system.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
With this visa, you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. For more information on your workplace rights and entitlements see Visa holders and migrant workers.
If you are in Australia, you may be eligible for a free, fast-tracked skills assessment if you have skills in a priority occupation. For more information see Migrant Skills Incentives.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia through the offshore Humanitarian Program.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming an Australian citizen. For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant your visa.
You may be able to access a range of services offered by the Australian Government such as:
Services Australia delivers a range of social and health-related payments and services. For more information about the range of available services and your eligibility to access them go to Services Australia.
If you are an unaccompanied humanitarian minor, you can get support through the Unaccompanied Humanitarian Minors program.
To receive an income in Australia, you need a Tax File Number (TFN). Income includes wages or salary from a job, government payments and income from investments. For more information or to apply for a TFN online, go to the Australian Taxation Office.
The Australian Government has developed a family safety pack with information on Australia’s laws regarding domestic and family violence, sexual assault and forced marriage. The family safety pack also includes important information about essential services and emergency contacts in Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Check your travel documents
Check the travel component of your visa is still valid in VEVO.
We recommend that you do not use the passport or travel document issued to you by your country of nationality. If you do so, we may consider that you no longer require Australia's protection and we may cancel your visa.
Contact any Australian Passport Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to apply for an Australian travel document.
When you are granted a permanent Protection visa, you can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. This means you can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you like in the 5 years from the date we granted your Permanent Protection visa, as long as your visa is in effect.
After 5 years your travel facility expires and you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the travel facility of your permanent Protection visa has expired, or if it expires when you are overseas, you will need to apply for, and be granted, an RRV before you can return to Australia as a permanent resident.
For further information on the travel facility on your permanent visa and advice on when to apply for a Resident Return visa, see Overseas travel as a permanent resident.
Travel condition 8559 applies to this visa.
With this visa you and members of your family unit can travel in and out of Australia. You must not enter the country or countries from which we granted you protection unless we approve that entry in writing before you travel.
We will only give approval to enter the country from which we granted you protection if there are compassionate or compelling circumstances for your travel.
If you enter the country from which we granted you protection without written approval, even for a short time, you will breach condition 8559. As a result, we may cancel your visa and the visas of members of your family unit.
Before you consider travelling to your home country,  you must seek and obtain written approval to travel from us.
Consular assistance may not be available while overseas
We will normally facilitate re-entry to Australia for persons holding valid travel documents issued by the Australian Passport Office, such as a Convention Travel Document.
If you travel overseas, with or without obtaining approval to travel, you do so at your own risk. Consular assistance is only available to Australian citizens, and only to permanent residents in crisis situations.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate