1. Subclass 884
2. Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa (Subclass 884) (Subclass 884)
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
2 years
AUD34,025
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
For more information, see Parent visa queue.
​
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa you can
You can apply for the permanent subclass 864 visa as a two-step process by first applying for a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) subclass 884 visa. Applying for the subclass 884 visa and then the subclass 864 visa allows you to spread the cost of the visas over a number of years.
6. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 2 years.
The visa period starts on the date we grant the visa.
7. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending or reapplying for this visa. You can apply for a different visa.
8. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
You will be required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, in the application form.
If you have a partner, include their details in your application even if they are not applying for the visa with you.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply. There is also an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
9. Cost
This visa costs AUD34,025. There is an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
There is also a charge for any family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for each applicant for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
See more about visa fees and charges.
10. Apply from
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply and when we make a decision on your application.
Any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
If you apply for this visa in Australia while on a temporary visa with a no further stay condition, your application will be invalid, unless you apply for a waiver of this condition.
11. Processing times
The demand for these visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages:
Do not arrange to stay permanently in Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Other Parent visas available include the:
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
12. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
You must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor.
Usually you would be sponsored by an eligible child. If your child is under 18, you can be sponsored by an eligible relative or community organisation.
We must approve the sponsorship.
You must be old enough to receive the age pension in Australia.
The visa you currently hold must not have a no further stay condition on it.
See your conditions in VEVO.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
You must meet the balance-of-family test. You meet the balance of family test if:
See examples of how the balance-of-family test is applied.
If you or any member of your family owe the Australian Government money you or they must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
We will not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check your passport. If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
You don't have to have a valid passport to apply but you must provide details of your most recent passport. However, we will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather all your documents, including for any partner or dependants who might be applying with you. You will also need your sponsor documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Your application must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor.
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia (469KB PDF).
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificate.
You will need to provide documents that prove you meet the balance-of-family test, including:
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To be included in your visa application as a dependent child, your child must be:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
Provide 4 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) of anyone included in the application.
Photographs must be:
You can wear untinted prescription glasses. If you wear a head covering for religious reasons, you can show only your face.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have all other documents certified. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for the visa on paper. You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when the application is submitted and when we make a decision.
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete Form 47PA Application for a parent to migrate to Australia (715KB PDF).
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia (469KB PDF).
Whether migrating or not, each member of the family unit aged 18 years or over must also complete Form 47A Details of child or other dependent family member aged 18 years or over.
You must complete all forms in English.
You must pay the first instalment when you apply. For payment options see how to pay.
You can’t apply for this visa in person. Send your application by post or courier to the address on the form. Include all required documents, forms and evidence of payment of application charge with your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
If you applied for a different parent visa, but we have not made a decision about that visa, you must withdraw that application at the same time that you apply for this visa.
Complete Part B of Form 47PA Application for a parent to migrate to Australia (715KB PDF).
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. There are other things you need to know and might have to do.
We can't provide updates on your application's progress within normal processing times. We will let you know if we need anything further.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. We need to know because you must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we make our decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not send us all the documents when you applied, send them to the Parent Visa Centre as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa in Australia, you are likely to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we make a decision on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Pay the second instalment charge when we tell you to.
We will send you an invoice for the instalment after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
You must pay the instalment or we can't grant the visa.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you make a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
See what to do if your situation changes.
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we make a decision on your application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant you the visa, we will let you know:
Keep a copy of our decision.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You and your family members must and obey all Australian laws.
Things you might need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
See your visa expiry, conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 2 years.
The visa starts on the date we grant it.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. See your options.
This visa is granted with multiple entries. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want for two years while the visa is valid.
See your visa conditions.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
You can work in Australia. You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.