Temporary Work (Long Stay Activity) visa (subclass 401)The Temporary Work (Long Stay Activty) visa (subclass 401) is closed to new applications from 19 November 2016.
This visa has been replaced by the Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408).

1. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Temporary Work (Long Stay Activity) visa (subclass 401). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
Your visa is valid for the duration of the nominated position, or up to two years, whichever is earlier (sport stream visa holders will usually only be permitted a stay in Australia for the duration of the sporting season).
This visa allows you to:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
During your stay in Australia, you must:
If the sponsor ceases your employment, you must do one of the following:
Your family cannot enter Australia before you. When your visa ends, your family must leave Australia with you.
Your family must:
Your family can work or study in Australia while their visa is valid.
We will tell you if there are any other conditions they must comply with when you are granted the visa.
Tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth or death in your family.
You can use the following forms:
2. Sponsors
You can no longer apply to sponsor applicants.
This information is for approved sponsors of people who are on a Temporary Work (Long Stay Activity) visa (subclass 401).
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO for Organisations) to check the visa details and entitlements of a person that you have sponsored.
From 19 May 2017 you must apply online for approval as a temporary activities sponsor if you want to sponsor a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) applicant after this date.
You must be able to comply with the following sponsorship obligations:
Depending on the stream in which you are making a nomination, you may also be required to comply with the following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have authorised someone else to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must be able to comply with the following sponsorship obligations:
Depending on the stream in which you are making a nomination, you may also be required to comply with the following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have authorised someone else to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must keep records that show you have your complied with your sponsorship obligations. All of the records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person.
You must keep a record of:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must keep records that show your compliance with your sponsorship obligations. All of the records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person. Records that must be kept, in addition to records that must be kept under other Australian Government, and state or territory laws, include the following:
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.
Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@homeaffairs.gov.au
By registered post:
You must pay reasonable and necessary travel costs to enable the sponsored person you have sponsored and their sponsored family members to leave Australia. They must ask you in writing for you to pay the costs. We can also make a written request ask on their behalf.
The costs will be considered reasonable and necessary if they include all of the following:
Travel costs must be paid within 30 days of receiving the request.
You will only be required to pay return travel costs once. If a sponsored person returns to Australia (whilst holding the visa for which you sponsored them) after you have paid their return travel costs, you will not be required to pay their return travel costs again.
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
You must pay reasonable and necessary travel costs to enable the sponsored person and their sponsored family members to travel to and to leave Australia.
The costs will be considered reasonable and necessary if they include all of the following:
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you may be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You may be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10 000) less any amount which may have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’ above).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen. It ends five years after they leave Australia.  This means that the department might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
If you sponsor someone to work for you as a volunteer without a salary or wages, you must secure an offer of a reasonable standard of accommodation in Australia for them and any family they bring with them.
If the accommodation becomes unavailable, you must find alternative accommodation for them.
A ‘reasonable standard of accommodation’ means that the accommodation must:
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is earliest):
Immediately on completion of the exchange, you are required to make available to the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident who is a participant in the exchange, the same position or equivalent position in Australia that was held by the Australian participant at the time the exchange was entered into.
This obligation starts on the day your nomination of the sponsored person is approved.
This obligation ends 30 days after completion of the exchange.
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if: