(Subclass 151)
Former Resident visa
This permanent visa allows former permanent residents and certain people who served in the Australian Defence Force to live in Australia.

With this visa you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years from date of grant as long as the travel facility remains valid
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
How long you can stay
This permanent visa allows you to stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day you get the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia when we granted it
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,665.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance.
If you apply in Australia, we can't grant you the visa if you are outside Australia when we make our decision.
If you apply outside Australia, we can't grant you the visa if you are in Australia when we make our decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. 
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity expires:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements for Australian citizenship.
Note:
if you leave Australia after your travel validity expires or your travel validity expires when you are outside Australia, you will not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident. If you then wish to return to Australia as a permanent resident, you must apply for and be granted an RRV before your arrival in Australia. 
the maximum travel period that can be granted to someone who does not meet the RRV residence requirement is 12 months.  This period is set by law it can't be extended
if you are already in Australia as a permanent resident, you do not need to apply for an RRV if you do not wish to travel
For more information on RRV, see: Resident Return visa (RRV). To see when your travel period ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.