Subclass 300
Prospective Marriage visa
This visa lets you come to Australia to marry your prospective spouse and then apply for a Partner visa.
For Applicants
For Sponsors

With this visa you can
live, work and study in Australia for 9 to 15 months from the visa grant date
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Settle in Australia
If you and your spouse want to settle in Australia, apply for a Partner visa (subclass 820 and 801):
after you are married
before your Prospective Marriage visa ends.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the period specified on the visa grant letter. This is 9 to 15 months from the visa grant date.
Include family members
You can include members of the family unit in your application.
when you lodge your visa application, or
add a dependent child after you lodge your application but before we decide on your temporary visa.
Family members who apply with you must:
be members of the family unit
meet our health requirement
meet our character requirement
be outside Australia.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirement. 
Newborn children
For information on what to do if your child is born after you apply, see You had a baby. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD9,095.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member who applies for the visa with you. We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out how much your visa will cost, including adding additional family members, use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the costs for health checks, police certificates or biometrics.
You will also have to pay a fee for your Partner visa (subclasses 820 and 801). You pay less for this visa if you marry your prospective spouse and apply for the Partner visa before your Prospective Marriage visa ends.
Apply for this visa
You must be outside of Australia when you apply for this visa. Family who apply with you must also be outside Australia.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
Your marriage
You must enter Australia on the Prospective Marriage visa before the date specified on your grant letter.
You must have married your prospective spouse before your Prospective Marriage visa expires.
You can get married in any country but your marriage must be valid under Australian law.
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need while in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal health care agreements.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while you hold this visa.
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Frequently Asked Questions
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).