Subclass 887
Skilled Regional visa
This visa is for people who have lived and worked in specified areas of regional Australia on a previous, eligible visa.

With this visa you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, apply for Australian citizenship
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long can you stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia.
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application if they currently hold an eligible visa. You must include each family member who is eligible to apply for this visa at the time you lodge your application.  You can't add family members after you have submitted your application.
You can include family members who no longer meet the standard definition of member of the family unit provided they hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit. This provision would apply, for example, if you want to include a child in your application who has turned 23 years of age since they were granted an eligible visa.
Family members included in your application must meet our health and character requirements. Family members not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health and character requirements.
Newborn children
If you have a child who was born either in or outside Australia since you were granted your current visa you must tell us about your child before you lodge this application. Find out what to do if your child is born after we granted your current visa. If we have not linked your child’s current visa to their passport you will be unable to lodge their application online.
Cost
The visa costs AUD490.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any member of the family unit applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
All applicants must be in Australia and hold an eligible visa at the time a subclass 887 visa application is made unless COVID-19 concessions apply.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
how many places are available in the migration program
Your obligations
You and your family must follow Australian laws.
Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.