Subclass 602
Medical Treatment visa
This temporary visa is for people to travel to or remain longer in Australia for medical treatment or to support someone needing medical treatment who holds this visa. It is also for people who are donating an organ.

With this visa you can
have medical treatment or consultation
donate an organ
support someone who holds this visa, if they are an organ donor or having medical treatment
be granted single entry or multiple entries to Australia depending on your situation
study for up to 3 months (or longer if you meet the exemption criteria).
You can't work except under limited circumstances.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
We determine the length of your stay on a case-by-case basis.
Things we consider when determining your stay period include your treatment plan.
Stay longer
You can't extend this visa to stay longer in Australia. If you need more time for your medical treatment or for another reason, you will need to apply for another visa.
Explore your visa options to stay longer in Australia.
Support persons
If you are applying to have medical treatment or donate an organ, a support person may apply for this visa.
A support person can be a member of your family or another person such as a friend.
Each support person must make a separate application unless they are included in your passport.
We can process your applications together.
We must grant your visa first before granting a support person a visa.
Cost
The visa is free if you apply outside Australia.
The visa costs AUD370.00 if you apply in Australia. If you represent a foreign government, the visa is free.
You might have to pay for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.
If we grant you the visa, at the time of grant you must be:
in Australia, if you applied in Australia;
outside Australia, if you applied outside Australia.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Health insurance
We recommend you obtain health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
The visa is granted with single or multiple entry.
You must arrive in Australia on or before the expiry date on your visa.
Multiple entry:
You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want.
Single entry:
if we grant you this visa while you are outside Australia, you can enter Australia once. If you leave Australia, you can’t return.
if we grant you this visa while you are in Australia, you can leave and return once. If you leave again, you can’t return.
If you need to travel to Australia again, you must apply for another visa.
Check if you have multiple or single entry in Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) or your visa grant letter.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.