Subclass 651
eVisitor
Visit Australia as often as you wish in a 12-month period. Stay up to 3 months each time you enter Australia.

With this visa you can
Travel to Australia:
as a tourist - for example, to cruise or have a holiday 
to visit family or friends
as a business visitor
You can study or train for up to 3 months in total on this visa. But if your main reason for travelling to Australia is study, a student visa might be more appropriate.
Note: Applicants who are seeking to train at a childcare centre, study to be a doctor, dentist, nurse or paramedic or enter health care or hospital environments should apply for the Visitor (subclass 600) visa and complete the relevant health checks.
Cruise
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia - that is, we do not consider you have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
Business visitor
As a business visitor, you can:
make general business or employment enquiries
investigate, negotiate, enter into or review a business contract
conduct activities as part of an official government visit
take part in a conference, trade fair or seminar. The organisers can't pay you to take part
You can't:
work for or provide services to a business or organisation based in Australia
sell goods or services directly to the public
If you want to do short-term work in Australia that isn't a business visitor activity, consider applying for a temporary work visa.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant it for 12 months. You can enter Australia any time your eVisitor is valid and stay for up to 3 months at a time.
The eVisitor is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while it is valid.
The eVisitor starts on the date it is granted. 
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
If you want to have a further short stay or stay longer for a holiday you might be eligible for a Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream (apply in Australia).
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you should be able to apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances.
Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
Cost
The eVisitor is free.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the subclass 651 visa.
You must be outside Australia when we decide on your application.
Processing times
25% of applications: Less than 1 Day
50% of applications: Less than 1 Day
75% of applications: Less than 1 Day
90% of applications: Less than 1 Day

Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the eVisitor is valid.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.