Subclass 200, 201, 203 and 204
Refugee category visas
With these visas you can move to Australia if you are subject to persecution in your home country. These visas allow you and your family to live, work and study indefinitely in Australia.

With this visa, you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
propose family members for permanent residence
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible become an Australian citizen
attend free English language classes through the Adult Migrant English Program
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident when you enter Australia.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day you enter Australia on this visa.
Include family
You can also add certain family members to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
For this visa, your family are:
your partner
your dependent children
your partner’s dependent children
other relative who is a dependant.
If your child is not dependent on you, they must apply for their own visa.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
It is important to declare all of your family members, even if they will not be applying with you.
If you do not declare a family member in your application, you may not be able to propose them for a Humanitarian visa after you arrive in Australia.
Cost
There is no visa application charge for this visa
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply. You must also be outside Australia when your visa is granted.
Processing times
We generally acknowledge Humanitarian visa applications in writing. Processing times can vary according to the applicant’s:
particular circumstances
location
ability to travel
ability to provide documents
access to Australian government officials.
The decision process takes many months, even years. The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas.
Your application can take longer to process if:
your application form is not filled in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
Processing times also vary according to individual and family circumstances, such as health conditions that might require testing or treatment.
We will contact you at key stages of processing and when a decision is made.
Priority processing
The Australian Government has established policy to guide decisions on which applications ought generally to be given priority. This policy includes those who are outside their home country and are one of following:
assessed as a refugee by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and referred to Australia for resettlement
proposed by immediate family member (for example, spouse, child under 18) who holds a Class XB visa (subclass 200, 201, 202, 203 or 204) or close family member (for example, sibling, adult child, parent) who holds a refugee category visa (subclass 200, 201, 203 or 204)
members of an identified minority groups (such as women and girls, ethnic minorities, LGBTQI+) and are referred by UNHCR or proposed by a family member in Australia.
Because of the limited number of resettlement places available each year and the high demand for them, we accept applicants in the most compelling circumstances only.
Assisted Passage
The Assisted Passage program supports the delivery of Australia’s Offshore Humanitarian Program and provides health screening, travel and medical related services to refugee category visa applicants and visa holders.
The Assisted Passage services are currently transitioning from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to Toll Transport Pty Ltd (Toll). Transition timeframes will vary between countries. During the transition you may be contacted by either Toll or IOM, depending on your location. Toll or IOM will help you attend health appointments and, if you are granted a visa, assist you to travel to Australia.
Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
If you signed a health undertaking, you must comply with it.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel
Your travel to Australia will be arranged by the Department at no cost to you. If the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter has passed, we may issue you with a travel facilitation letter. We may first ask you to undergo a fresh medical examination. 
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Additional information
The number of applications we receive for resettlement each year is far greater than available visas. 
There are four visa subclasses included in the Refugee category of the Humanitarian Program. They are:
Refugee (subclass 200)
In-country Special Humanitarian (subclass 201)
Emergency Rescue (subclass 203)
Woman at Risk (subclass 204).
We will consider your application against each subclass.
You can find more information at Refugee visas (offshore) (homeaffairs.gov.au).