Subclass 866
Protection visa
This visa is for people who arrived in Australia on a valid visa and want to seek asylum. It lets you stay in Australia permanently, if you engage Australia’s protection obligations and meet all other requirements for the grant of the visa.

With this visa, you can
live, work and study in Australia permanently
access government services such as Medicare and Centrelink services
sponsor eligible family members for permanent residence through the offshore Humanitarian Program
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible become an Australian citizen
attend English language classes for free if you are eligible
How long can you stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become an Australian permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For Australian citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
Including family members
Members of the same family unit may apply together on the same application. They must:
be in Australia at the time of application
be eligible to apply for this visa
Members of the same family unit are:
spouse or de facto partner of the family head
dependent child or step-child of the family head
dependent child or step-child of the family head’s partner
other dependent relatives of the family head
The family head can be you. It can also be someone else in your family who has not applied for this visa.
A dependent child is a child or step-child who is under 18 years old. A dependent child can be 18 years old or older if they are:
incapacitated for work due to loss of their bodily or mental functions; or
wholly or substantially reliant on their parent or step-parent for financial, psychological or physical support
We do not consider a child or step-child of any age to be a dependent child if they are currently married, engaged to be married or in a de facto relationship.
Children who are not dependent children must apply for their own visa
Other dependent relatives may include relatives such as the family head’s:
parent
brother/sister
grandparent/grandchild
aunt/uncle
cousin
niece/nephew
or step equivalent to any of the above
We consider a relative to be a dependent relative of the family head if they:
do not have a spouse or de facto partner
usually lives with the family head; and
are wholly or substantially reliant on the family head for financial, psychological or physical support
Members of the same family unit applying for this visa must meet our health, character and security requirements.
Newborn child
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision on your application, the child will be taken to be included in that application. You must tell us as soon as possible by:
completing Form 1022 Notification of change of circumstances (172KB PDF)
providing a clear colour copy of their original birth certificate
attaching them in ImmiAccount or sending them by post to the address where you sent your application. You will need to send a certified copy of the child’s birth certificate if you send it by post.
If a child is born in Australia, we automatically grant them the same visas their parents hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child might be an Australian citizen by birth.
Cost
AUD45.00
Apply from
You must be in Australia when you apply for the visa.
Processing times
We aim to finalise protection visa applications as quickly as possible. This is a very complex process and will take some time. You can assist us in finalising your application by responding to any requests from us within the specified timeframes.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill in your application in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need
we need more information from you
you do not respond to requests for information quickly
it takes us time to verify your information
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia.
If you want to travel outside Australia, after we grant the visa, you should first contact any Australian Passport Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to  apply for a travel document
We recommend that you do not use the passport or travel document issued to you by your country of nationality. If you do so, we may consider that you are no longer in need of protection from your home country and we may cancel your visa.
Travel to the country from which we granted you protection
Travel condition 8559 applies to this visa.
If we grant you this visa, you and members of your same family unit, must not enter the country or countries from which we granted you protection unless we approve that entry in writing before you travel.
We will only give you approval to enter the country from which we granted you protection if there are compassionate or compelling circumstances justifying your travel.
If you enter the country from which we granted you protection without written approval, even for a short time, you will breach condition 8559. As a result, we might cancel your visa and the visas of members of your family unit.
Before you travel, see condition 8559.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your travel document or ImmiCard. You will not get a label in your travel document.