Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488)The Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488) is closed to new applications from 19 November 2016.
You might be eligible for a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408).
Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
The Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488) usually lasts for 12 months from the date it is granted, although stays of three or six months may also be granted.
To apply for a further visa as a superyacht crew member while in Australia you must apply for a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) while you continue to hold the visa.
If you are granted this visa, you can:
You cannot do any work that is not part of the usual day-to-day routine maintenance or business of the superyacht.
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You can work only as a superyacht crew member in Australia, and only for your sponsor. You cannot do any work for the sponsor or owner of the superyacht that is not part of the day-to-day routine maintenance or business of the superyacht.
You cannot work for any other person or for yourself.
If your employment ceases, you must do one of the following:
If you want to change your employer, you will need a new sponsorship and a new Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488).
To be granted a further Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488) while in Australia, you must apply either while your Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488) is still valid or while you hold another valid Australian visa.
Tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth or death in your family.
You can use the following forms:
If you applied online you might be able to update your address and passport details using ImmiAccount.
Sponsors
This information is for approved sponsors of a crew member for a Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488).
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO for Organisations) to check the visa status and entitlements of people you have sponsored.
You cannot apply to sponsor applicants for this visa because it is no longer open to new applications.

If you were approved as a superyacht crew sponsor before 19 November 2016 you can use this approval to sponsor a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408). applicant (who is engaging in the relevant activity) during the transitional period, that is until 18 May 2017, or until your approval ceases (whichever is earlier).

From 19 May 2017 you must apply online for approval as a temporary activities sponsor if you want to sponsor a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) applicant after this date.

If you applied for approval as a superyacht crew sponsor before 19 November 2016 your application will continue to be assessed under the pre-19 November 2016 legislation. If approved, the sponsorship would only be valid to sponsor new Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) applications until 18 May 2017.
You must comply with the following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have someone else authorised to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
Cooperating with inspectors can include (but is not limited to):
You must keep records that show you have your complied with your obligations. All records must be in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person.
You must keep a record of:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.
Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@homeaffairs.gov.au
By registered post:
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you may be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You may be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10 000) less any amount which may have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’ above).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen. It ends five years after they leave Australia.  This means that the department might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if:
The types of actions that could be taken depend on whether the sponsor is a standard business sponsor or has made  a work agreement.
If you have sponsored someone under a work  agreement, we could suspend or terminate it in accordance with the clauses of the particular work  agreement.