Vocational Education and Training Sector visa (subclass 572)You can no longer apply for the Vocational Education and Training Sector visa (subclass 572). It closed for new applications on 1 July 2016. From 1 July 2016, if you need to extend your stay in Australia, you must apply for a Student Visa (subclass 500).
Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Vocational Education and Training Sector visa (subclass 572) or for people who applied for the visa on or before 30 June 2016 and for which a decision has not yet been made. It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use the free Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) to check your visa details and conditions.
If you already have a Vocational Education and Training Sector visa (subclass 572), it will be valid until the expiry date you were given when your visa was granted.
With this visa:
Obligations
You must comply with your visa conditions while studying and living in Australia or your visa could be cancelled. You must also comply with Australian laws.

If you want to change to a course that is in a different education sector to your current course for example changing from high school to a Diploma course, you will need to apply for a new Student Visa (subclass 500) because your visa subclass will not be appropriate for your new course (or package of courses).

If you were granted your visa under streamlined visa processing (SVP), you must continue to satisfy the requirement for the grant of the visa. This means we could consider cancelling your visa if you seek to transfer to a different education provider who was not an eligible education provider (before 1 July 2016) If:
Check which conditions apply to your visa with Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO)or your visa grant letter.
In addition to ensuring that you comply with your visa conditions, there are also requirements under the Education Services for Overseas Students (ESOS) National Code that apply if you want to change your education provider.
If you have not completed six months of your principal course (the main course of study you are undertaking) and you want to change your education provider, the ESOS National Code sets out the circumstances in which this will be possible. Unless special circumstances apply, you are usually required to have the permission of your existing education provider in order to transfer to another education provider.
If you do want to transfer, your education provider must assess or consider your request to transfer. All education providers must have documented procedures on their transfer policy. You should make sure you understand your education provider's transfer policy, and what your written agreement says you must do, before you attempt to enrol with a new education provider.
If your education provider does not give you permission to transfer to another education provider and you are not satisfied with the outcome, you should first access the internal appeal process with your education provider. If you are still not satisfied, you can appeal the education provider's decision at an external complaints handling body, such as the State or Territory Ombudsman or the Overseas Student Ombudsman.
If you are under 18 years of age you must maintain adequate  accommodation, support and general welfare arrangements for the duration of your visa or until you turn 18.
If your welfare arrangements are approved by your education provider you cannot travel to Australia until your welfare arrangements commence. The date your welfare arrangements commence is the welfare start date that your education provider has nominated on the Confirmation of Appropriate Accommodation/Welfare Arrangements (CAAW) letter.
If a student guardian is providing for your welfare arrangements and they need to leave Australia without you, you will need to make alternative welfare arrangements and these must be approved by us first. If you do not do this, your visa could be cancelled.
Some visas are issued with a 'no further stay' condition. This condition means that you cannot apply to stay in Australia beyond the date specified on your visa, except in certain circumstances.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
Your dependent family members must maintain their visa conditions. A breach of these conditions may result in your visa being cancelled and you may have to leave Australia.
Your family members must:
Important: It is your responsibility to ensure that your family members meet the above conditions.