Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Entertainment Activities stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Up to 2 years
From AUD415.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
You apply for this visa under one of these categories:
Eligible work could include:
Consider a different Temporary Activity stream or a different visa if you are planning to work as:
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant it.
If we grant the visa, we will let you know how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can:
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
If your sponsor/supporter organisation is included by the Minister in a legislative instrument, you may be eligible for a Visa Application Charge concession. The organisation must be:
You will not receive a concession if you are also contracted to other organisations that are not listed in the instrument for other events during your stay.
Check with your sponsor if you might be eligible for a visa application charge concession. If you are, ask them for evidence of this to submit with your application.
We might not process your application if you ask for a concession but don't provide evidence you are eligible for one.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
You must not change the times and places of engagements specified in the application. If you need to do so, you must ask the Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs for permission before you make any changes.
You must ask permission from the Temporary Specialist Entry Centre to make any changes to your itinerary. This includes new events, changes in times or new venues. Send an email to entertainment.visas@homeaffairs.gov.au or let us know in ImmiAccount.
If your sponsor, supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must do one of the following:
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.
You don't need a sponsor to apply for this visa if you:
You must have a supporter to apply for this visa.
You need a sponsor to apply for this visa if you:
You must have a contract for your performance or work in Australia.
If you are here for a non-profit engagement, whether as a performer or production staff, you must be able to show us evidence of this.
If you are here to make an advertisement or documentary for an overseas market, you must be able to show us evidence of this such as a distribution contract.
You must have access to enough money during your stay in Australia to support yourself and any dependent family members who travel to Australia with you
You apply for this visa under one of these categories:
See what the eligibility requirements are for each category.
Apply under this category if you are performing in a production subsidised wholly or in part by an Australian federal, state or territory government, including as:
Your sponsor or supporter must consult with the relevant union or unions before engaging you. They must also obtain an Arts certificate from the Department of Communications and the Arts.
Apply under this category if you are performing in a production that is not subsidised in whole or part by a government in Australia, including as:
Your sponsor or supporter must consult with the relevant union or unions before engaging you. They must also obtain an Arts certificate from the Department of Communications and the Arts.
Apply under this category if you are performing in a production other than a film or television production, such as:
Your sponsor or supporter must consult with the relevant union or unions before engaging you.
Apply under this category if you are a production or technical crew member such as:
Your sponsor or supporter must consult with the relevant union or unions before engaging you.
Apply under this category if you have been contracted to assist a performer with a performance or provide a personal service such as:
Your sponsor or supporter must consult with the relevant union or unions before engaging you.
Apply under this category if you are performing in or supporting a performer in a non-profit production.
The engagement can't serve any commercial interest. Any profits made must be given to a non-commercial organisation, charity or patron.
Apply under this category if you are working on a documentary or commercial for an overseas market that is not intended to be shown in Australia.
A documentary is a factual presentation of a real event, era or person’s life in a television, film, online video or radio program. Light entertainment and reality tv can be considered documentaries if they portray real events or people. A drama series about fictional characters would not be considered a documentary.
You might work as:
If the documentary or commercial will be shown in Australia, apply for this visa under one of the other entertainment activity categories such as:
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our  health requirement.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You can't use our temporary visa program to maintain ongoing residency in Australia.
The genuine temporary entrant (GTE) requirement helps us to make sure that you use temporary visas correctly.
We generally do not let temporary residents extend their stay in Australia beyond 4 years by applying for this visa.
We must be satisfied that you have a genuine intention to stay here temporarily.
When assessing your application, we will consider:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must acknowledge the Australian Values Statement that confirms you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you apply for the visa.​
You must declare whether you have ever engaged in conduct that could consitute a breach of the prohibition on paying for visa sponsorship when you apply for the visa.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must have an eligible sponsor or supporter. Let us know if you are getting help with your application.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide evidence to support your application, including sponsor or supporter documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you have a sponsor, provide the following with your application:
You must also provide evidence that your sponsor is:
Also provide evidence your sponsor holds any licences they need to undertake the production.
If you are engaged to perform or support a non-profit production, provide evidence:
If you have a supporter, provide:
You must also provide evidence that your supporter is:
Also provide evidence your supporter holds any licences they need to undertake the production.
If you are engaged to perform or support a non-profit production, provide evidence:
If you are applying under one of the following categories, provide evidence that your sponsor or supporter has consulted with the relevant union or unions before engaging you:
If you are performing in a film or television production, provide evidence that your sponsor or supporter has obtained an Arts certificate from the Department of Communications and the Arts,
If your sponsor/supporter organisation is included by the Minister in a legislative instrument, you may be eligible for a Visa Application Charge concession. You will need to provide evidence that the organisation is:
You will not receive a concession if you are also contracted to other organisations that are not listed in the instrument for other events during your stay.
We might not process your application if you ask for a concession but don't provide evidence you are eligible for one.
Show us you can support yourself and anyone who comes to Australia on the visa with you by providing:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer.
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificate.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
For de facto relationships provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
New step description
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the fee.
You must pay the fee and attach documents for all family members who apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may be granted:
If your current visa expires before we decide your application, the bridging visa will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your visa application. You can't re-enter Australia on a BVA or BVC - there is no right of return on these visas and they will cease on departure.
Learn more about visa expiry.
Check what conditions might apply to your bridging visa or the visa you have applied for with our condition checker.
You can add members of the family unit to your application before we decide on your visa.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant. You should declare any family members you might wish to include on your visa when you apply, even if they don't plan to travel with you to Australia at that time.
New step description
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in VEVO.
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
You must have written permission from the Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs to make changes to the listing of events, times and venues submitted with your application.
Contact the Temporary Specialist Entry Centre to request changes to your itinerary, including adding new events, or changing times or venues at entertainment.visas@homeaffairs.gov.au.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
The visa stay period starts on the date you enter Australia.
You can check your visa stay period in your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
See your options.
You must make your first entry to Australia by the date specified in the visa grant letter. This is the Must not arrive after date.
Once you make your first entry to Australia your Visa stay period starts. Your Visa stay period is the length of time you can stay in Australia.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want during your Visa stay period while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa. The visa stay period does not start again each time you enter Australia. Any time you spend outside of Australia counts as part of the stay period.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
If you have permission to work, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Family members you declared on your visa application who did not apply for the visa with you might be eligible to apply for a subsequent entrant visa.
Apply for a subsequent entrant visa using the Temporary Activity, International Relations or Training Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records.