Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Business Innovation Extension stream
Stay in Australia for up to 6, 7 or 8 years after the date of grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (Subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream .
From AUD1,170.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
How long you can stay
The date you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream determines how long you can stay in Australia.
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held at the time of application.
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 6 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held at the time of application.
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 8 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream.
This is a provisional visa. The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Business Innovation stream if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add your dependent child to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD1,170.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you:
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must pay an extra charge unless the applicant has already paid this charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application. This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
There are no standard processing times available for this stream.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
You must also meet certain business obligations and obey Australian workplace laws.
While the holder of this visa, you must:
In the business, you must do at least one of these things:
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
You must meet workplace laws when operating your business in Australia. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
You must hold a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Innovation stream and have held it for at least three years.
Arrangements were in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 you were able to apply for this visa until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’.
You could do so if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Business Innovation stream during the ‘COVID-19 concession period’ , and it was granted on or before 30 June 2019;
You could also have applied if you hold or held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Business Innovation Extension stream during the ‘COVID-19 concession period if you:
You must also have held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream for at least 3 years.
For more information on the concession period, visit COVID-19 concession period.
You must be able to demonstrate your business activities are of a nature that will require a substantial presence in Australia to operate your business and manage its day-to-day affairs.
Your main business must have been operating actively in Australia for at least 2 years immediately before applying for this visa, unless COVID-19 concessions below apply.
Your main business must have been operating actively in Australia for a combined period of at least 2 years while you held one or both of these visas.
You must also continue to have an ownership interest in that main business.
You must have maintained your commitment to stay directly involved in the day-to-day management and decision-making of the business.
You must have a current nomination from a State or Territory agency before being invited to apply for this visa.
You and your partner must have had no history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application, must either have functional English or you will be asked to  pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
We may request family members not accompanying you to Australia to also meet our health requirement.
Do not undertake health requirement until we ask you to.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirement
If you and your family members who have applied for this visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must have a current nomination from a State or Territory agency.
You and your family members will need valid passports for this visa. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your business and assets. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, provide evidence of business ownership for at least the 2 years immediately before you make the application.
If during the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you hold or held a:
Your main business or businesses must have been operating actively in Australia for a cumulative period of at least 2 years while you held one or both of these visas. You will need to provide evidence of business ownership for the cumulative period.
Evidence of business ownership may include:
Provide evidence of your ownership or share of ownership of the main business, such as:
Also provide evidence that shows a need for you to be a resident in Australia to operate the main business.
Provide evidence that you genuinely have a realistic commitment to maintain direct and continuous involvement in management of the business from day to day and in making decisions affecting the overall direction and performance of the business
You can provide evidence that  demonstrates your involvement in decisions about the management of all or substantial part of the business and responsibility for such areas as strategic management, recruitment, price structure, business profitability and expenditure.
Provide:
If a publicly listed company operates any of your qualifying businesses, provide evidence that you, your partner or you and your partner combined own at least 10% of the issued shares of the publicly listed company.
Provide your supporting documents and pay the visa application charge by credit card when you apply.
Provide proof that you have at least functional English.
All applicants aged 18 years and older at the time of application who can't provide evidence of having at least functional English must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge.
If you and any family member applying with you have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
Provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Proof of dependency
You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any document certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans or photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
If you are applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan, please use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
Apply for this visa online. You must hold a Subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa in the Business Innovation stream to apply.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams.
Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Have all forms and documents ready before you submit your application.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
Applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in the Business Innovation Extension stream via ImmiAccount.
Attaching more information
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without requesting more documents.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
Health examination results are generally valid for 12 months. If your previous health clearance for subclass 188 visa is more than 12 months old, you will need to undertake new health examinations.
Do not undertake health examinations until we ask you to.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can.
If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere send your documents to us through ImmiAccount.
Attach more information
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without requesting more documents.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application. Send the form to the address you sent your forms and documents.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If your visa is granted, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must comply with all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
You also must meet certain business obligations and comply with Australian workplace laws.
You must genuinely have a realistic commitment to:
In the business, you must do at least one of these things:
During your stay, we might survey you about your business activities in Australia.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
You must comply with workplace laws when operating your business in Australia. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if your situation changes.
This is a provisional visa.
If you were invited to apply for the last Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held, on or after 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 7 years after the date you were granted that visa.
If you were invited to apply for the last Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 6 years after the date you were granted that visa.
If the last subclass 188 visa you held was a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Innovation Extension stream, you can stay in Australia for up to 8 years after the date of the grant of your original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Explore you visa options.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met.
For permanent residence, apply for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Business Innovation stream
This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'.
Complete the 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.