Subclass 407
Training visa (Subclass 407)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
This is a temporary visa. We might grant you a visa allowing you to stay in Australia for up to 2 years.
From AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
With this visa, you can
Nomination types
This visa allows people to take part in workplace-based training to improve their skills for their job, area of tertiary study, field of expertise or in a professional development training program in Australia.
Nomination requirements are different depending on the purpose or type of training.
There are 3 types of occupational training covered by this visa:
Nomination is the stage where the sponsor provides details about the nominee (intended trainee), the purpose or type of training and how and where the training will be provided.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.  We might grant you a visa stay in Australia for up to 2 years.
You can leave and re-enter Australia on the visa while it is valid.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You can apply for another visa. Explore visa options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply or when you hold your visa.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
They can do this using the Temporary Work and Activity Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Family members applying subsequently should :
Cost
The visa costs from AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Financial support
You will need to be able to financially support yourself while in Australia. You will need to be able to financially support accompanying family members.
Changing sponsors
If you decide to train with another organisation while you are in Australia, you will need to be sponsored by that organisation. They must submit a new nomination for you.
When the new nomination is approved you can do your occupational training with that organisation for the time remaining on your visa.
You do not have to apply for a new visa, as long as you continue to do the training program your visa was approved for.
If your occupational training program changes, you need to submit a new visa application.
If your sponsor ends your training you must tell us. You may try to find another organisation to sponsor you.
Apply for a new visa
If you want to apply for a new Training visa (subclass 407) you will need continuing sponsorship. You may have to provide an explanation of why you were unable to complete the training within the initial training period.
Your sponsor must be approved as a temporary activities sponsor.
Your sponsor must have nominated you to participate in a program of occupational training unless your sponsor is a Australian Commonwealth Government agency.
Nomination requirements are different depending on the purpose or type of training.
There are 3 types of occupational training covered by this visa:
Usually, you must be 18 years old or older at the time we decide your visa application.
If you are applying in Australia, you must currently hold a valid temporary substantive visa that is not a:
If you are in Australia and do not hold a substantive visa, your last substantive visa must not have been one of the above visas and your application must be made within 28 days:
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability. You must maintain adequate health cover for the whole of your stay if you are granted this visa. Your insurance should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See a guide to what we consider adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You must only intend to:
You must have substantially complied with the conditions of the last substantive or subsequent bridging visa that you held.
You must have functional English.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Before you apply, you have to make sure your sponsoring organisation has applied to be or has been approved as a sponsor. Your sponsoring organisation must also have submitted a nomination application. Australian Commonwealth Government agencies don't have to nominate.
Don't arrange travel until we tell you in writing you have the visa.
If you plan to get a new passport, you should do so before applying for this visa. If you get a new passport after you have submitted your application, you must tell us of this change in writing. You can do this using ImmiAccount.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather documents to prove your identity and show you have a sponsor, nomination or government invitation, financial support and health insurance. You will need to prepare them to submit online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you can't prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You need to provide:
If this is a volunteer position, you and your sponsor need to complete the Acknowledgement of unpaid placement forms.
Your sponsor should submit these forms with the nomination.
You will need to show evidence of your financial capacity to support yourself and your family while you are in Australia, such as:
You will need to provide evidence of adequate health insurance for you and your family members for the duration of your stay in Australia.
Provide evidence that you have functional English language skills to undertake the training programme.
You do not need to provide these results if you hold a valid passport from:
If you are sponsored by a Australian Commonwealth Government agency, provide a copy of the invitation to participate in the training.
If you are not sponsored by a Australian Commonwealth Government agency, provide a copy of the nomination approval letter or receipt for submitting the nomination application.
Also provide a copy of your qualifications and curriculum vitae (CV).
If registrations or licences are required for you to do the training, provide copies of registrations or licences.
If you are sponsored by a Australian Commonwealth Government agency, provide a copy of the invitation to participate in the training.
If you are not sponsored by a Australian Commonwealth Government agency, provide a copy of the nomination approval letter or receipt for submitting the nomination application.
Provide a statement from your sponsor confirming they are satisfied:
Provide a signed letter on company letterhead from your current manager detailing your current position and duties.
Also provide a copy of your qualifications and curriculum vitae (CV).
You must provide a letter from the relevant regulatory body for the occupation in Australia or your home country. This letter must :
If you are a health practitioner treating patients as part of your occupational training you must:
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Also provide military service records or discharge papers if you served in the armed forces of any country.
Depending on your circumstances, we may ask you to also provide an overseas police certificate from every country, including your home country, where you spent a total of 12 months or more in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
Complete and provide the following forms:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
For de facto relationships provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You must apply for this visa online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
If it is within standard processing times do not call. We can't provide any further updates on the application's progress.
You can see if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. You cannot travel on the BVA - there is no right of return on this visa; it cancels on departure.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all your documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
You cannot add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa, unless it is a child born after you apply but before we make a decision on your visa.
If your child is born after you apply but before we make a decision on your visa, then your child is considered to have made the same visa application as you.
You must tell us as soon as possible and give us:
Attach supporting documents including the child's passport if available to your ImmiAccount.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant. They can do this using the Temporary Work and Activity Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply or when you hold your visa.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If we have granted you a Training (subclass 407) visa, you may want to consider withdrawing any other undecided visa applications you have lodged with us.
We will continue to progress any undecided visa applications. If they meet the requirements it may result in your current visa ceasing. It may also affect your eligibility for government benefits such as Centrelink or Medicare.
To withdraw any other visa application, you must tell us in writing.  More information is available on our website at You want to withdraw an application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements, use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions that apply and obey all Australian laws.
Check your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
This is a temporary visa. You can stay until your visa expires. To see when your visa expires use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You and your family are protected by Australian workplace law.  See their workplace rights and entitlements.
Family members who are granted the same visa with you can only work up to 40 hours every two weeks in Australia.
To see your and your family's conditions for work, use VEVO.
Your family members who did not apply for the visa with you might be eligible to apply as a subsequent entrant after the visa is granted.
Apply for a subsequent entrant visa using the Temporary Work and Activity Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply or when you hold your visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.