Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 494)
Employer Sponsored stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors
5 years
From AUD4,770.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
Specified region
You can live, work and study only in a designated regional area. Designated regional areas include all of Australia except for Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Pathways to permanent residence
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for a period of 5 years from when your visa is granted.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
If eligible, you can apply for permanent residence after 3 years from the time your visa is granted.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, you must tell us the reason why. For example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident.
Cost
This visa costs AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant, AUD2,385.00 for each dependent 18 years and over, and AUD1,190.00 for each dependent under 18 years.
It costs an additional AUD9,800.00 if any dependent applicants who are 18 years and over do not have functional English. This extra charge is called a second instalment.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You will have to pay other costs including English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we make a decision on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold either of the following visa otherwise your application will not be valid:
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days of:
You must only work in your nominated occupation and only work for your nominating employer in regional Australia. If you do not, we might cancel your visa.
Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be under 45 years of age when you apply for the visa.
You are exempt from this criteria if any of the following applies to you:
You must be nominated by an employer whose business is lawfully operating in Australia.
You must be employed to work in the nominated occupation and in a position within the sponsoring business or an associated entity of that business, located in a designated regional area of Australia.
Before you can apply for the visa, your employer will need to lodge a nomination application for you. They will only be able to do this if they are an approved work sponsor or have at least lodged an application to become a standard business sponsor.
If you are the primary visa applicant, you must show that you have the skills, qualifications and work experience necessary to perform the nominated occupation.
You must undertake a skills assessment to show this – see Have a positive skills assessment below.
If it is not mandatory for you to undertake a skills assessment, you are still required to provide other evidence to show that you meet this requirement – see 'Skills and qualifications documents'.
You must have been employed in the nominated occupation for at least 3 years on a full-time basis and at the skill level required for the nominated occupation.
Generally, you should have gained your experience within the last 5 years. The period does not need to be continuous. We might consider equivalent part-time work. We do not consider casual work.
You must have your skills assessed as suitable for the nominated occupation by the relevant assessing authority. The assessment will show us you have the skills to work in the nominated occupation.
The skills assessment must be undertaken before your application is lodged. A skills assessment obtained for a Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485) is not a valid assessment for this visa.
You do not need to complete a skills assessment if at the time of application you held a Temporary Work (Skilled) visa (subclass 457) or Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482) for the nominated occupation and in order to be granted that visa, you were required to demonstrate your skills by providing a suitable skills assessment.
You are exempt from this criteria if any of the following applies to you:
You must have at least Competent English to be granted this visa.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If requested, family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health requirement.
You and your family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the character requirement.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 16 years of age or older, you must:
Things you will need to arrange before you apply could include obtaining a skills assessment, an English language test or undertaking a health assessment. You might also want to get help with your application.
Get a skills assessment if you need to. The assessment will prove you have the right skills and qualifications to do your job.
Make sure your English test results are current for this visa. You must have at least Competent English to be granted the visa. Have an English test if necessary.
You need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Make sure your employer has submitted a nomination application. They will receive a nomination Transaction Reference Number (TRN) when they do.
Ask your employer for the TRN. You need it to apply for the visa.
Criminal and civil penalties can be applied to anyone who asks for, receives, offers or provides a benefit in exchange for visa sponsorship. Learn more about work visa scams.
Documents you may have to provide could include documents for your identity, character, skills, work experience, health and English language skills.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are 45 years of age or older and eligible for an age exemption, provide documents to show you are exempt from the age eligibility criteria.
See more about age exemptions in legislative instruments.
You need to provide documents that prove your skills and qualifications including:
See more about skills exemptions in legislative instruments.
Provide documents that show you have Competent English.
You do not need to provide health documents. If you have had medical exams, the results are sent to us by your doctor.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16 years. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police . We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police. For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove a de facto relationship include:
You must show that your partner has Functional English.
If you can't show that your partner has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
For every dependant under 18 years who is applying with you provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant 18 years and over who is applying with you provide:
You need to prove that this person is a family member and/or dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
You must show that your family member and/or dependant has Functional English.
If you can't show that your family member and/or dependant has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment  of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we decide on your application.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about travel on a Bridging visas.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
We might ask you to provide more information. Attach any additional documents we ask you for as soon as possible in ImmiAccount..
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. You must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging visa A, Bridging visa B or Bridging visa C for your visa application to be processed.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may have been granted a Bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you will:
If you need to pay a second instalment of the visa application charge we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the instalment after you get the invoice. Do not ask for the invoice.
You can't add members of the family unit to your visa application after it has been submitted.
If you have submitted your visa application and we are processing it, certain family members that were not included in your visa application can submit a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, certain family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
If you had a baby, you should tell us as soon as possible. If you don’t, your child may be unlawful.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we decide on your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We must have approved your employer’s nomination before we can grant you this visa.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the visa application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have a valid:
All people arriving in Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card during your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days after your:
Learn more about visa details and conditions.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
This is a provisional visa. You can live, work and study only in regional Australia for up to 5 years.
To see when you must leave, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
If your visa is expiring and you want to keep working in Australia for your employer:
You can’t stay longer by extending the visa.
After holding a subclass 494 visa for at least 3 years, you may apply for permanent residence through the Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191).
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your length of stay in Australia.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Usually you can only work for the business that sponsored you. If your sponsor is an Australian business, you can work for that business or one of its associated entities as long as it is in regional Australia.
When you work in Australia, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Learn more about visa details and conditions.
Secondary applicants can apply for this visa as a subsequent entrant.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and:
See how to access your superannuation after you leave Australia.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your travel records.