Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405)Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405). This temporary visa is for self-funded retirees who have no dependents and want to live in Australia during their retirement years.
About this visa
This is a temporary visa. It allows you to:
You can only apply for this visa if you are:
From AUD490.00
There is a second visa application charge payable prior to the grant of the Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405). This charge is payable in respect of each person applying for the visa and must be paid prior to each grant (including each time the visa is renewed).
You may have to pay other costs, such as: health assessments, police certificates, other certificates or tests. You are responsible for making the necessary arrangements.
You must be sponsored by an Australian state or territory government agency (other than the Australian Capital Territory). More information can be found on their websites.
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania Victoria
Western Australia.
A designated investment must be maintained for the duration of the Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405). The amount of the designated investment decreases by AUD250,000 the first time you reapply for the visa and then remains constant. If you reapply for your Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405) a designated investment of AUD500,000 must be made and maintained. If you live in regional Australia a designated investment of AUD250,000 must be maintained.
You (or combined with your partner) must have access to a minimum net income of AUD65,000 per year.
If you intend to live in regional Australia you (or combined with your partner) must have access to a minimum net income of AUD50,000 per year.
This income test applies each time you apply for an Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405). If you choose to reapply for your visa you must show that your net income still meets this requirement.
You must meet certain health requirements. The results of your health examinations are generally valid for 12 months.
This applies to you and any dependent family members included in the application.
You are able to organise your health examinations upfront before lodging a visa application.
You must meet certain character requirements. If you are 16 years of age or older, you must be prepared to provide a police certificate from each country you have lived in for 12 months or more, during the past 10 years, since you turned 16 years of age. Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you to.
You must have evidence that you and your partner hold an adequate health insurance package for the period of your intended stay in Australia.
For health insurance to be considered adequate, it must:
It is preferable that the policy is with an Australian insurer, however alternative arrangements that meet the above requirements can be accepted. Alternative arrangements, with an overseas insurer, will need individual detailed examination of the insurance policy and may result in processing delays.
If you do not maintain adequate health insurance it may result in the refusal of future visa applications.
You might be asked to provide biometrics (a scientific form of identification) as part of the application.
On 1 July 2017, the Department introduced amendments to the Migration Regulations 1994 to provide alternative requirements for Investor Retirement (subclass 405) visa applicants, in Australia, applying for a further subclass 405 visa, but cannot meet certain visa criteria.  Compelling and compassionate circumstances may be considered by the Department in cases where an applicant is suffering from hardship due to ailments associated with ageing or difficulties following the death of a partner.
After you have lodged your application for a further subclass 405, the Department will give you an opportunity to provide more information if you cannot meet certain visa criteria.
You must have no outstanding debts to the Australian Government or have arranged to repay any outstanding debts to the Australian Government before this visa can be granted.
Visa applicants
Usually, you and your partner need to have valid passports to be granted this visa.
If you plan to get a new passport, you should do this before applying for your visa. If you get a new passport after you have lodged your application, give the details of your new passport to one of our offices.
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. We can make a decision using the information you provide when you lodge your application. It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible with your application.
Provide certified copies of original documents. Do not include original documents unless we specifically ask for them. Police certificates should be original documents. Documents not in English must be accompanied by accredited English translations.
Use this checklist to make sure your application is complete.
Note: Letters from an independent accountant must be on company letterhead. Any letter prepared in plain paper will not be acceptable.
You need to provide documents to prove the claims you make in your application.
Some documents could take some time to obtain. You should have all the required documents ready when you lodge your application to reduce any delays in processing.
You must complete the following application form:
You also need to complete and lodge Form 1249 State/Territory sponsorship: Investor Retirement visa (245KB PDF) with the state or territory in which you wish to be sponsored (other than the Australian Capital Territory). The relevant state or territory government agency will sign and stamp the form and return it to you if they agree to sponsor you. Once the completed sponsorship form is returned to you it should be lodged along with your application form.
Provide all relevant documents and pay the first instalment of the visa application charge when you apply. You can pay by credit card, bank cheque or money order made payable to the Department of Home Affairs and pay the visa application charge when you apply. Your visa application should be lodged at one of the following addresses:
Department of Home Affairs
Specialist Temporary Entry Centre 
GPO Box 794
Hobart Tas. 7001
Department of Home Affairs   
Specialist Temporary Entry Centre 
14th Floor, 188 Collins Street 
Hobart Tas. 7001
As part of the application process you must make a designated investment. The following steps outline the process for making a designated investment:
After you have lodged your application and documents, we will acknowledge that we have received your information.
We have visa processing times for each visa.
Your application could take longer if you need character or health checks (including x-rays), if you need to provide more information, or if your application is incomplete.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, do not make arrangements to travel to Australia until you are advised in writing that you have been granted a visa. Wait for a decision from us before you leave your job, sell your home or book your travel.
If you apply for this visa in Australia, you could be eligible for a Bridging visa that allows you to stay in the country lawfully while your application is processed. If you are given a Bridging visa A, you can apply for a Bridging visa B (BVB) to travel outside Australia while you wait for a decision.
You can provide more information to us, in writing, at any time until a decision is made on the application. If you want to correct information you provided, you can use:
We could also ask you for more information and will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If another person gives us information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will generally give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
If the visa is granted, we will send you a letter or email to tell you:
You will not have a visa label placed in your passport.
The letter we send you will also tell you the date you must enter Australia.
If the visa is not granted, we will send you a letter or email to tell you:
Visa holders
Workers in Australia – including visa holders with permission to work – have rights under Australian workplace law.
The Fair Work Ombudsman’s Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT)  provides information on pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
See also: Workplace rights for all visa holders working in Australia
This information is for people who have already been granted an Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
This is a temporary visa. It allows you to:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must enter Australia before the date given to you in your visa grant notification.
Tell us if your circumstances change. You can use the following forms:
Sponsors
You must be sponsored by an Australian state or territory government agency (other than the Australian Capital Territory). More information can be found on their websites.
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania Victoria
Western Australia.