Medical Treatment (Short Stay) visa (subclass 675)The Medical Treatment (Short Stay) visa (subclass 675) closed to new applications on 23 March 2013. You might be able to get the Medical Treatment visa (subclass 602) visa if you want to come in to Australia for medical treatment or consultations.
If you have been granted the Medical Treatment (Short Stay) visa (subclass 675), it will be valid until the expiry date you were given when your visa was granted

Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Medical Treatment Short Stay visa (subclass 675). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
You can apply for a further visa:
You must apply for and be granted your next visa before your current visa expires.
This visa allows you to:
You might be able to study for more than three months if you are younger than 18 years of age and you have the written permission of the Minister. You will need to show that you have compelling and compassionate reasons due to a change of circumstances while you are in Australia.
If you already hold this visa, the following people might be able to join you in Australia by applying for a Medical Treatment visa (subclass 602):
These people can apply for a Medical Treatment visa (subclass 602) using:
In Australia:
Post or fax your application to the Canberra office in Australian Capital Territory - attention Specialist Temporary Entry Centre. You can pay by credit card, debit card, bank cheque or money order made payable to the Department of Home Affairs.
Outside Australia:
Lodge your application at one of the immigration offices outside Australia.
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws. You cannot work in Australia, except under limited circumstances. You can study for up to three months
You are expected to leave Australia before your visa ends. You can apply for another visa in Australia if you need more medical treatment and have a medical treatment plan. Medical Treatment visas are usually granted for a short time only, and you are expected to return to your home country.
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.