Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)
Second Post-Higher Education Work stream
Between 1 and 2 years depending on:
From AUD765.00
For an indication of processing times for your visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
You must find your own employment while on this visa.
How long can you stay
This is a temporary visa. The length of your stay in Australia will depend on:
If you:
See Designated regional areas.
Stay longer
Current and future Temporary Graduate visa holders from Hong Kong may have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, if they are in Australia.
Family members who apply for this visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can add your children to the application until we decide on your application. You can't add any other member of the family unit to your application during that period.
If a family member wants to be added to your visa after we have granted it, they can apply as a subsequent entrant from inside or outside Australia. See when you have this visa.
Cost
The visa costs AUD765.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you and subsequent entrants must pay the full Visa Application Charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks or police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
The Temporary Graduate visa is exempt from the Subsequent Temporary Application Charge.
Apply
You can be in Australia (but not in immigration clearance) when you apply for this visa.
Subsequent entrants can be in or outside Australia when they apply.
All applicants can be in or outside Australia at the time of decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for your visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct Visa Application Charge. We will notify you if this is the case and, if necessary, return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while your visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend your visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be 35 years of age or under when you apply.
You can be under 50 years of age when you apply if you:
This stream is only available if you:
You must continue to hold a valid first Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream when you apply for a Second Post-Higher Education Work stream visa.
You must be in Australia (but not in immigration clearance) when you apply for this visa.
Subsequent entrants can be in or outside Australia when they apply.
You will not be eligible for this visa if you have been the primary holder of a Temporary Graduate visa in the:
Existing provisions which enable a secondary holder of a Temporary Graduate visa to apply as a primary applicant remain.
You must have obtained your qualification that led to the grant of your first Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work or Post-Study Work stream from an Australian education provider who is registered on CRICOS and offers degree-level programs.The campus that you studied at must have been based in a designated regional area.
As the holder of a Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream, you must have lived only in a designated regional area for at least 2 years immediately before applying for the Second Post-Higher Education Work stream visa. To do this, show us evidence that in the last 2 years, you resided in a designated regional area.
Designated regional areas are divided into two categories: Category 2 “Cities and Major Regional Centres” and Category 3 “Regional Centres and Other Regional Areas".
If you have lived only in a Category 2 area, you can only be granted an additional 1 year visa.
If you have lived only in a Category 3 area, you can only be granted an additional 2 year visa.
If you have moved between categories you will be considered for the shorter visa.
If you have been away from your usual residence for a holiday or short work trip, it will not change the way we assess your usual residence.
The table below provides a guide on the residence and study requirements for the Second Post-Higher Education Work stream visa.
If you worked and/or studied while you held your Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream, the work and study must have been in the designated regional area.
We may ask you to provide further information or evidence of your work or study.
The Department does not undertake pre-lodgement assessments of any visa criteria. Once a valid visa application has been lodged, a delegate will make an assessment based on the information available to them.
You and your family members must have and maintain adequate health insurance for the duration of your stay in Australia. See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
You and any family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa must meet our character requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you need immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Begin these steps as soon as possible after you have resided for at least 2 years in a designated regional area and while you still hold a Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream.
You must be in Australia to apply for this visa.
You need a valid passport for this visa.
If you plan to get a new passport, do so before applying for your visa.
If you have a 'No further stay' condition 8534 or 8503 on your current visa, you can’t apply for this visa online. Submit an ImmiAccount technical support form.
To see your conditions see VEVO.
You may need to have health examinations.
Find out the examinations you need and how you can arrange them. Arranging examinations before you apply may lead to a faster decision.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You need to provide documents to support your application.
We can make a decision using the information you provide when you lodge your application. Provide as much information as possible with your application.
Some documents could take some time to get. Have them ready when you submit the application to reduce delays in processing.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You need to show us that you have lived for at least 2 years in the period immediately before you lodge your application, in a designated regional area.
This evidence should show us:
Evidence of residence could include copies of documents in your name such as:
If you have worked and/or studied while living in a designated regional area while you held your Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream, you must provide evidence that the work and/or study was completed in the designated regional area.
You must prove that you have adequate health insurance in Australia. Provide:
If requested complete and provide the following forms:
You must provide an Australian Federal Police check to be granted this visa. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates (Immigration/Citizenship – Australia Name Check Only) issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates, national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police, or any other organisation.
You may be required to provide:
For more details refer to character requirements for visas.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
If you are married, provide your marriage certificate or other evidence that your marriage is valid in Australia.
If you are a de facto partner, provide proof of your de facto relationship.
This proof should show that:
Additional proof of a de facto relationships
In addition to documents proving your relationship provide evidence that:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online.
If you are having problems lodging your application, see common issues and error messages.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
When you submit your application you must pay for you and your family members or your application will not be valid.
Note:
If you have a technical problem with your ImmiAccount or online application see how to resolve error messages when submitting online
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We cannot give status updates while your application is within standard processing timeframes.
For any information requests, check ImmiAccount .
You can be inside or outside Australia (but not in immigration clearance) when we decide on your visa application.
Arranging examinations before you apply may lead to a faster decision.To find out the examinations you need and how you can arrange them, see What health examinations you need.
You can attach further supporting documents in ImmiAccount.
You should provide any requested information within the specified timeframe. We can make a decision on your application once the timeframe has passed.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, your bridging visa will allow you to stay lawfully in Australia while we process your application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will be staying in Australia unlawfully.
Learn more about visa expiry.
You may be able to add your dependent child to your application for this visa before we make a decision.
You will need to:
Your family can also apply to join you in Australia as a subsequent entrant after the visa is granted. See when you have this visa.
Newborn children
If your child is born after you apply but before we make a decision on your visa, then your child is considered to have made the same visa application as you.
You must tell us as soon as possible and give us:
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See: how to tell us if your situation changes
You can be in or outside Australia (but not in immigration clearance), when we decide on your visa application.
If you are a subsequent entrant (family member), you can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the email with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know by email. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
Now that you have your Temporary Graduate (subclass 485) Second Post-Higher Education Work visa, you may want to consider withdrawing any other undecided visa applications you have lodged with us. Failure to withdraw any undecided applications may result in you being granted a different visa.
To withdraw any other visa application, you must tell us in writing. More information is available at You want to withdraw an application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You can live, study and work in Australia temporarily.
You must find your own employment while on this visa.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
The visa starts on the date we grant your visa. To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
This visa is granted with multiple entries. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while your visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your visa.
See your conditions.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Members of the family unit can also apply to join you in Australia as a subsequent entrant after we grant your visa. They can be in or outside Australia when they apply (but not in immigration clearance).
Family members applying for this visa as subsequent entrants must apply online in ImmiAccount. For more information see step by step.
Visa holders must arrive in Australia by their Initial Entry Date.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply or when you hold your visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are paid AUD450 or more before tax in a month.
See how to access your super.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records