(Subclass 117)
Orphan Relative visa (Subclass 117)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Permanently
From AUD1,920.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
With this visa the child can
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, the child becomes a permanent resident on the day they enter Australia on the visa.
Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply, make a separate application for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Cost
The visa costs AUD1,920.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each of the child's dependent children who apply for the visa.
There might also be other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the  Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child must be outside Australia when the application is made and when we make a decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process the application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. If this happens, we will tell the visa applicant. If necessary we will return the application.
The child's obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link the child's visa to their passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
If we grant the visa, we will send a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. Use this number to access the digital visa record.
The child must be sponsored by an eligible sibling or step-sibling, grandparent or step-grandparent, aunt, uncle, step-aunt or step-uncle.
We must approve the sponsorship. We might not approve sponsorship if the parent or their partner has been charged or convicted of offences involving children. Learn more about measures for the protection of children.
The child must be under 18 years old when they apply for the visa.
We will not grant this visa unless the child has no parent who can care for them. This might be because both their parents either:
We will not grant this visa if the child's parents are capable of caring for them but don't want to.
We will only grant this visa to a child younger than 18 years if either:
The child and any of their dependent children who apply for the visa with them must meet our health requirement.
Dependent children who are not applying for the visa might also have to meet our health requirement.
If the child is aged 16 years or older they must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other dependent children who apply for the visa meet the requirement.
If the child or any member of their family owes the Australian Government money it must be paid it back or there must be a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check the child's passport is valid. Tell us if someone is acting on the child's behalf.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide documents to support the application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove the child's identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of the child's current passport showing their photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide 4 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) of the child and for any other dependant included in the application.
Photographs must be:
The child can wear untinted prescription glasses. If the child wears a head covering for religious reasons, they can show only their face.
Provide a certified copy of the passport or travel document the child will use to enter Australia and any passports the child has held since then.
You must provide evidence the child has no parents capable of caring for them.
Provide:
If the child's parents can't be found, provide evidence of:
Provide evidence of the child's relationship to their relative, such as:
Children over 16 years must provide police certificates from every country they have spent 12 months or more in the last 10 years, since turning 16.
For Australia, we only accept National Police Certificates applied for under Code 33 – Immigration/Citizenship. The Australian Federal Police issue these certificates. We don't accept standard disclosure certificates or certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
If anyone in the application served in the armed forces of any country, they must provide military service records or discharge papers.
Children over 16 years must complete and provide Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment (596KB PDF).
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with the child, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include an identity document that shows the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a passport or drivers licence.
Alternatively, you can show us:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Have all other documents certified. This includes:
Keep a copy of the completed application.
Send us:
Apply for this visa on paper. The child must be outside Australia when the application is made.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete the following 2 forms and send them together by post (with correct prepaid postage) or by courier to the Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth.
You must pay the application charge before you post your application. See how to pay.
We will not process your application until you pay the application charge. Your application should also include evidence of payment of the application charge and all the relevant supporting documentation.
If you submit your application at any other office or in any other way, it will not be a valid application and cannot be considered further.  Applications for this visa cannot be submitted in person.
The forms must be completed in English.
By post (with correct prepaid postage):
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Locked Bag 7
NORTHBRIDGE WA 6865
By courier:
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Wellington Central
836 Wellington Street
WEST PERTH WA 6005
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will advise when we have received the application and documents. There might be other things to know or do or be aware of after applying.
We can't provide updates on the progress of the child's application within normal processing times. We will let you know if we need anything further.
Do not arrange for the child to travel to Australia until we let advise, in writing, that we have granted the child a visa.
We will let you know when to arrange the child’s health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not include all necessary documents when you applied, provide them as soon as you can.
We might also ask you for more information.
If the application was lodged on or after 1 April 2020:
If you lodged the application before April 2020:
You can add the child's dependent children to their visa application any time before we make a decision.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as possible.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if the situation changes.
The child must be outside Australia when we make a decision in order for us to grant the visa.
We will tell you our decision in writing. Keep a copy of the decision.
If we grant the child’s visa, we will tell you:
If we refuse the child’s visa we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse the application.
The child must have:
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter.
If the child’s visa is still valid and the date specified in their visa grant letter has passed or will pass before they can travel to Australia, they must ensure that:
We may then send the child a travel facilitation letter. This will state that we allow them to enter Australia after the first entry arrival date on their visa.
We will not issue a travel facilitation letter unless there is less than 3 months remaining on the child’s first entry arrival date.
All people arriving into Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. Children aged 16 or over might be able to leave the airport using the SmartGate.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You can check visa details and conditions in VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. The child can stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, the child's permanent residence starts on the day they enter Australia.
As a newly arrived resident the child might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived residents' waiting periods from the Department of Human Services.
We need to know about:
See how to let us know if there is a change in the child's situation.
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility of this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
The child may be able to work or study in Australia from the date we grant this visa. They are protected by Australian workplace law. See their workplace rights and entitlements.
Dependants can't be added to this visa after we have made a decision.
To find a visa for a family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, the child might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, the child's permanent residence starts the day they entered Australia on this visa.
The child must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check if the child needs a Resident Return visa to return to Australia as a permanent resident in VEVO.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. The child might be able to leave the airport faster using the SmartGate.
Request the child's international movement records to get proof of their travel in and out of Australia.