Subclass 491
Skilled Work Regional (Provisional) visa - Main applicant (Subclass 491)
5 Years
From AUD4,770.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa you can
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years from the date we grant your visa.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Cost
From AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.00.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be valid.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You can only apply for this visa if we invite you to.
Submit an expression of interest (EOI) in SkillSelect to let us know you would like to apply for the visa.
Indicate if an eligible relative is going to sponsor you for this visa or if you want a state or territory government agency to nominate you.
You must be either nominated by an Australian state or territory government agency or indicate that you will be sponsored by an eligible relative. See below for more information.
Submit an expression of interest (EOI) for the visa to get an estimate of your points score.
If you score enough points, state and territory government agencies can see your EOI and might nominate you for the visa.
If you indicate in your EOI that you will be sponsored by an eligible relative the Department may invite you to apply for a visa in an invitation round.
If you are nominated for the visa, we will invite you to apply. All state and territory government agencies have their own criteria for deciding who they will nominate.
Contact the state or territory agency directly to find out more about their nomination process and what they want from you.
Your sponsor must be:
An eligible relative can be:
We must approve your sponsorship before you can be granted a visa.
You must be aged under 45 to be invited to apply for the visa.
You can still apply for the visa if you turn 45 after we invite you to apply.
If you turn 45 after you submit your EOI but before we invite you to apply you will not receive an invite.
For your application to be valid, you must declare that you have a suitable skills assessment at time of invitation.
Delegates of the Minister will now accept a suitable skills assessment for an applicant’s nominated skilled occupation which has been obtained within the 60 day invitation period.
This change of approach is made as a result of the decision of Thapa v Minister for Immigration, Citizenship, Migrant Services and Multicultural Affairs [2021] FCCA 686 (Thapa). The Minister will administer the Migration Regulations 1994 in accordance with the decision in Thapa, but the Minister reserves the right to make submissions in a Court that Thapa was wrongly decided.
You will need to provide a copy of this skills assessment with your application.
For medical and legal practitioners, we also accept the following as proof of a skills assessment:
Your skills assessment must have been obtained in the 3 years before the date of your invitation. If the assessment was for a shorter period, that period must not have passed.
If your skills were assessed on the basis of a qualification you got in Australia when you held a student visa, the qualification must be from studying a course registered on CRICOS.
The subclass 491 is a points-tested visa.
When you submit your EOI in SkillSelect you will be given an indicative points score based on the claims you have made. If you do not obtain a score of 65 points you will not be invited to apply for this visa.
If we do invite you to apply for the visa, your invitation will state the number of points that you must score when we assess your application for grant of the visa (this score may be higher than 65 points, depending on your claims in the EOI).
When you lodge your application you must provide evidence supporting your claims.
To check how points can be awarded refer to the points table.
At the time of invitation, you must have at least Competent English.
If a family member 18 years or older is applying for the visa with you, either:
Your occupation must be on the combined list of eligible skilled occupations for a Skilled Regional (subclass 491) visa.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement. If requested, family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement. Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) through SkillSelect to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
If you score enough points, a state or territory government agency may nominate you for the visa and we will invite you to apply.
If you advised in your EOI that you will be sponsored by an eligible relative we may invite you to apply for a visa in an invitation round.
Check that your occupation is on the combined list of eligible skilled occupations for a Skilled Regional (subclass 491) visa.
You must have a suitable skills assessment at the time we invite you to apply.
The assessment must be undertaken by an assessing authority listed against your occupation in the list of eligible skilled occupations. You might have to pay for the assessment.
To be eligible for a visa your skills assessment must have been obtained within the 3 years before the date of invitation. If the assessment was for a shorter period, that period must not have passed.  We can't accept a skills assessment issued more than 3 years before the invitation date.
If your skills were assessed on the basis of a qualification you got in Australia when you held a student visa, the qualification must be from studying a course registered on CRICOS.
For medical practitioners we accept evidence of registration issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency. You must hold either:
You must show that you hold this registration at the time we invite you to apply.
A suitable skills assessment for barristers and solicitors is evidence of admission to practice as a lawyer in an Australian state or territory.
The relevant legal admissions authority must have admitted you to practice at the time we invite you to apply.
You must be able to obtain at least 65 points on our points test to be eligible for this visa. If you cannot obtain 65 points we will not invite you to apply.
If we invite you to apply for the visa, you must prove the claims you make in your EOI when we assess your application.
Use the points table to check how many points you might score.
Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa.
If we invite you to apply for the visa, you will have to prove the claims you make in your EOI. You will also need to show you meet the other eligibility criteria.
See what documents you will need to prove your claims before you submit your EOI in the Gather documents section.
Submit your EOI via SkillSelect. You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no fee for submitting an EOI.
Select the Skilled Work Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 491) Invited pathway.
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
SkillSelect will estimate your points score based on the claims made in your EOI.
You must have an estimated score of at least 65 points to be invited to apply for this visa.
If you score enough points and there are places allocated for your occupation, we might invite you to apply.
If you have expressed interested in being nominated then your EOI will be visible to state and territory government agencies and they may nominate you for the visa.
If you are nominated, you will get an invitation to apply for this visa.
If a state or territory government agency nominates you, you and all members of your family unit who are also holders of the visa, will need to live, work and study in only certain areas of Australia. See Designated regional areas for more information.
We may invite you to apply for the visa if you have stated in your expression of interest that you have an eligible relative willing to sponsor you.
If an eligible relative sponsors you, you and all members of your family unit who are also holders of the visa, will need to live, work and study in only certain designated areas of Australia. See Designated regional areas for more information.
An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a bridging visa.
If your current visa is about to expire, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully.
You are not eligible for a bridging visa because the EOI is not a visa application. You are only eligible for a bridging visa after you are invited and apply for this visa.
Let us know through SkillSelect if:
You must be able to meet the points score on your invitation letter if we invite you to apply.
SkillSelect will update your indicative points score when you make changes to your EOI. You can change your EOI at any time before we invite you to apply for a visa.
We allocate places for the skilled migration program to meet the Australian Government’s migration planning levels.
Once invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. We cannot extend this time.
You could receive an invitation up to 2 years after submitting an EOI. If we invite you to apply you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Getting an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
The invitation will include an indicative points score based on your EOI claims.
When you apply for the visa, you must show that you:
If you do not apply for the visa after two invitations, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect.
We will not process your visa application if you are 45 or over at the time of your invitation.
If you can't show you meet the points score on your invitation or the other visa criteria, then do not apply for the visa.
Your EOI will be suspended if an invitation is issued, but you can update information once the 60-day invitation period has passed. If this is your second invitation, you will have to submit another EOI if you still want the visa.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide documents to support the claims you make in your EOI and show you meet the other visa criteria.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof you have at least competent English at time of invitation for this
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
Provide proof that your partner has at least functional English.
If any of the dependent applicants, who did not pay the second instalment cannot show evidence of functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge for each of those dependent applicants, when we ask you to.
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
You don't have to prove that your dependant under 18 years of age has functional English.
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Provide proof that all dependent applicants aged 18 years and older, have at least functional English.
If any of the dependent applicants, who did not pay the second instalment cannot show evidence of functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge for each of those dependent applicants, when we ask you to.
You must provide documents that support the claims you made in your EOI. To check the documents you need use the points table. Depending on your claims this could include evidence of your:
Delegates of the Minister will now accept a suitable skills assessment for an applicant’s nominated skilled occupation which has been obtained within the 60 day invitation period.
This change of approach is made as a result of the decision of Thapa v Minister for Immigration, Citizenship, Migrant Services and Multicultural Affairs [2021] FCCA 686 (Thapa). The Minister will administer the Migration Regulations 1994 in accordance with the decision in Thapa, but the Minister reserves the right to make submissions in a Court that Thapa was wrongly decided.
One of these certificates issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency:
You must be registered at the time we invite you to apply.
Proof of admission to practice as a lawyer in the relevant state or territory. This could be your Australian legal Admission Certificate or Practising Certificate from the relevant legal admission authority for your State/Territory. You must be admitted to practice at the time we invite you to apply.
You must provide documents to prove all of the claims you made in your EOI. Use the points table to check the documents you need.
If you are being sponsored, provide:
To prove that your sponsor is an Australian citizen, permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen, provide:
To prove your sponsor is usually resident in a designated area of Australia, documents you can provide include, but are not limited to:
To prove the sponsor's relationship with you, documents you can provide include, but are not limited to:
If you are being nominated you do not need to provide evidence of this with your application.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
When you have your invitation you can apply online. You can be in or outside Australia.
You have 60 days from the date of your invitation to apply for the visa.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If you are granted a bridging visa you will receive notification of your visa grant.
We do not give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure your visa allows you to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you applied outside Australia, don't arrange travel to Australia, leave your job or sell your home until we advise you in writing that you have been granted the visa.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can to your ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, pay it when we send you the invoice.
You can add dependent children to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Use Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement, pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia do have to meet our character requirement and might have to meet our health requirement.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do your child is born after you apply.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as subsequent entrants.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it to your application in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but not in immigration clearance. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, you must enter Australia before a date that we specify on your visa grant letter.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions, work and study requirements, use VEVO.
You and your family members must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws. See your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a temporary visa.
To see when you must leave or apply for a further visa to remain in Australia, refer to your visa grant letter and the information in VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
See your options.
If you want to stay in Australia permanently and you or your partner have satisfied the work and residence requirements, you might be eligible for Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191).
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might affect your eligibility for permanent residency through a Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191) and ultimately, your eligibility for permanent residency or  Australian citizenship.
If you wish to provide evidence you have a visa and conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can work in any occupation and for any employer, in line with the work and residence conditions attached to your visa.
You will need to live and work in an area specified as a designated regional area
See your specific conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Members of the family unit who did not apply for the visa with you can apply to join you in Australia later as subsequent entrants.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
If applicable ensure your visa is still valid and allows you to re-enter Australia. You can check your visa validity in VEVO.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.