Skilled – Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 475)This visa is subject to the Cap and Cease arrangement that took effect on 22 September 2015. Any visa application that was not decided before 22 September 2015 will be taken not to have been made. 
You can use the visa finder to search for an appropriate visa
If you already have this visa, your eligible family members can apply for the Skilled - Regional (Provisional) (subclass 489) visa.
Visa holders
This visa is valid for three years from:
This visa lets you:
You might be able to apply for permanent residency after you have:
The Skilled – Regional visa (subclass 887) is specifically designed for holders of a provisional skilled visa who want to apply for permanent residency.
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must live, study and work in  regional Australia or a low population growth metropolitan area and comply with any residential conditions specified by the state or territory government in your nomination.
If you later apply for a permanent residence Skilled – Regional visa (subclass 887), you will need to prove that you have spent the specified time in that area.
You must live, study and work in a designated area. If you plan to apply for permanent residence, you will need to prove that you have spent the specified time in that area.
If you do not comply with the conditions of your visa, your visa, and your family’s visa, may be cancelled.
If your visa is cancelled, you will not be able to apply for a similar visa while you stay in Australia.
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.
Sponsors
This information is for the sponsor of a Skilled -​ Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 475) holder.
This visa is closed to new applications. This visa was subject to the cap and cease arrangement that took place on 22 September 2015. Visa applications that were not decided by 22 September 2015 are taken not to have been made. For more information on the cap and cease see: Cap and cease​.
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO for Organisations) to check the visa status and entitlements of people you have sponsored.
Your sponsorship lasts for two years from the time the visa holder first enters Australia.
For two years from the date the visa is granted, you have agreed to: