(Subclass 445)
Dependent Child visa (Subclass 445)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Temporarily, until we have decided the permanent visa application of the parent of the child.
From AUD3,140.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
With this visa the child can
Once the child has been granted this visa, they must apply to be added to their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
When an application to add the child to their parent's permanent Partner visa application has been submitted, the child can enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare.
How long the child can stay
This is a temporary visa. It starts on the date we grant the visa.
The child can stay until we decide their parent's permanent Partner visa application or their parent withdraws their permanent Partner visa application.
Stay longer
The child can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include other children
Each of the child's siblings must apply for this visa separately.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each dependent child who applies for the visa with the main applicant.
There might also be other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what the visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child can be in or outside Australia when the visa application is submitted.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application can take longer to process if:
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge isn't paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
The child's obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and any of their family members who are granted the visa must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Once the child has been granted this visa, they must apply to be added to their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
Travel
The child can travel to and from Australia as often as they wish while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
The child must be dependent on a parent who holds a:
The child must apply to be added to their parent's permanent Partner visa application when they have been granted this 445 visa.
If the child is in Australia, they can't hold another visa that has a ‘No further stay’ condition.
The child may apply for Australian citizenship by descent instead of a visa to travel to Australia, if:
The child must be sponsored by the same person who sponsored or nominated their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
The sponsorship must be approved by us.
The sponsorship may not be approved if the sponsor or their partner has been charged or convicted of offences involving children.
Learn more about measures for the protection of children.
The child must be either:
The child and any of their dependent children who apply for the visa with them must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia with the child might also have to meet our health requirement.
If the child is aged 16 years and over they must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other dependent children who apply for the visa meet the requirement.
If the child is 18 years of age or older, they must:
If the child owes the Australian Government money you must have it paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will only grant this visa to a child younger than 18 years if either:
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check the child's passport is valid. Tell us if someone is acting on the child's behalf.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Complete the forms and get the photos, documents and translations you need.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of the child's current passport showing their photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide 4 recent passport-size photos (45mm x 35mm) of the child and of any other dependent child included in the application.
Photographs must be:
The child can wear untinted prescription glasses. If the child wears a head covering for religious reasons, they can show only their face.
Children over 16 years must provide a police certificate from every country they have spent 12 months or more in the last 10 years since turning 16.
We only accept National Police Certificates applied for under Code 33 – Immigration/Citizenship. The Australian Federal Police issue these certificates. We don't accept standard disclosure certificates or certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
If anyone included in the application served in the armed forces of any country, they must provide military service records or discharge papers.
Children over 16 years must complete and provide Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment (596KB PDF).
Provide evidence the child is related to the parent, such as:
If the child is over 18 when the application is made, provide evidence they are dependent on their parent who holds the temporary Partner or Dependent Child visa for basic needs such as food, shelter and clothing, and how long this support has been provided. Evidence could include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with the child, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who has a legal right to decide where the child lives.
They must complete either:
Include an identity document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Provide evidence from a qualified medical practitioner that the applicant has a total or partial loss of mental or body function that stops them from working.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Provide each supporting document as a certified copy. This includes:
Photographs of the applicant and any of their dependent children included in the application must also be certified.
Keep a copy of the completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete the following form.
Form 918 Application for a subclass 445 (temporary) visa by a dependent child (453KB PDF) (462KB PDF)
Send it by post or by courier to the Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth. You must include correct prepaid postage.
You must pay the application charge before you post your application. See how to pay.
We will not process your application until you pay the application charge. Your application should also include:
You must complete the forms in English.
If you submit your application at any other office or in any other way, it will not be valid. We will not consider invalid applications further. You cannot submit applications for this visa in person.
By post:
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Locked Bag 7
NORTHBRIDGE WA 6865
AUSTRALIA
OR
By courier:
Department of Home Affairs
Child and Other Family Processing Centre
Wellington Central
836 Wellington Street
WEST PERTH WA 6005
AUSTRALIA
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will tell you when we have received the application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can't provide updates on the progress of the application within global visa processing times. We will tell you if we need anything further.
If you applied while the child was onshore, and the child wants to travel overseas during visa processing, they need a valid visa to return to Australia.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will tell you when to arrange the child’s health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will tell you if you need to provide them.
If you did not include all necessary documents when you applied, provide them as soon as you can.
We might also ask you for more information.
If the application was lodged on or after 1 April 2020:
If you lodged the application before April 2020:
If the child was in Australia when the application was submitted, make sure they stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process it.
When a child applies for this visa in Australia, they are granted a bridging visa. If their current visa expires before we decide their application, the bridging visa will start. The child can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process their new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add the dependent children of the child to the application at any time before we decide the application.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
The child can be inside or outside Australia when we make our decision.
We will tell you our decision in writing. Keep a copy of the decision
If we grant the visa, we will tell you:
If we refuse the visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse the application.
The child must have:
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter.
If the date has passed or will pass before they can travel to Australia, ensure that the child:
We may then send the child a travel facilitation letter. This will state that we allow them to enter Australia after the first entry arrival date on their visa.
We will not issue a travel facilitation letter unless there is less than 3 months remaining on the child’s first entry arrival date.
All people arriving into Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. Children aged 16 or over might be able to leave the airport faster using SmartGate.
The child and family members who apply with them must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You can check visa details and conditions in VEVO.
Once granted this visa, the child must apply for the same permanent Partner visa as their parent.
Complete and attach to their parent’s Partner visa application in ImmiAccount Form 1002 - Application by a subclass 445 dependent child for a permanent partner visa (279KB PDF).
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Submit the form before we decide the permanent Partner visa application of the child's parent. This ensures the child remains lawful in Australia.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
See the child's visa expiry, conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a temporary visa. The child can stay until we decide their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
To see when the child must leave, use VEVO.
The child can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
The child might be able to work or study in Australia from the date we grant this visa. If the child works they are protected by Australian workplace law.  See their workplace rights and entitlements.
You can't add a dependant after we have decided the application.
To find a visa for a family member, explore visa options.
The child must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.