(Subclass 864)
Contributory Aged Parent visa (Subclass 864)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Permanently
AUD48,495
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
For more information, see Parent visa queue.
​
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
With this visa you can
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
You can apply for the subclass 864 visa as a two-step process by first applying for a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) (subclass 884) visa. Applying for the subclass 884 visa and then the subclass 864 visa allows you to spread the cost of the visas over a number of years.
You have already met the balance of family test.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
You will be required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, in the application form.
If you have a partner, include their details in your application even if they are not applying for the visa with you.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
This visa costs AUD48,495. There is an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
You might also have to pay other costs for each applicant for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
See more about visa fees and charges.
Apply from
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa.
Any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
Processing times
The demand for these visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages:
Do not arrange to stay permanently in Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Other Parent visas available include the:
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
You must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor.
Usually you would be sponsored by an eligible child. If your child is under 18, you can be sponsored by an eligible relative or community organisation.
We must approve the sponsorship.
If you hold a Temporary Contributory Aged Parent (subclass 884) visa, you might still be eligible for this visa if your sponsor dies.
See what to do if your situation changes.
You must be old enough to receive the age pension in Australia.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other non-migrating family members meet the requirement.
​If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
You must meet the balance-of-family test. You meet the balance of family test if:
See examples of how the balance-of-family test is applied.
If you hold a Contributory Aged Parent (subclass 884) (Temporary) visa, you have already met the balance of family test.
You must be able to obtain an assurance of support.
An assurance of support assures us that you will not have to rely on government assistance after you enter Australia on this visa. The assurance is for you and any family members who come to Australia with you on this visa.
We will let you know when you need to provide the assurance of support.
Learn more about assurances of support.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
We will not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check your passport. If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
You and anyone who applies for the visa with you must have valid passports before we grant the visa. We will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
However, we will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
If you applied for a different parent visa, but we have not made a decision about that visa, you must withdraw that application at the same time that you apply for this visa.
If you applied for a Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173) or a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 884) you need to complete:
If you applied for a Parent visa (subclass 103) or Aged Parent visa (subclass 804), you need to complete:
Gather all your documents, including for any partner or dependents who might be applying with you. You will also need your sponsor documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You won't need to provide us with some of the documents we usually ask for if:
You will still need to provide documents:
Changes in your situation we need evidence of include:
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Your application must be sponsored by an eligible sponsor.
Your sponsor must complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia.
Show us that you meet the balance-of-family test by giving us:
If you hold a Contributory Aged Parent (subclass 884) (Temporary) visa, you have already met the balance of family test.
We might ask for character documents, including police certificates. Don’t arrange a police check until we ask you to.
Learn more about police certificates.
Provide us with an assurance of support when we ask for it.
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To be included in your visa application as a dependent child, your child must be:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
Provide 4 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) of anyone included in the application.
Photographs must be:
You can wear untinted prescription glasses. If you wear a head covering for religious reasons, you can show only your face.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have all other documents certified. This includes:
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper. You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when the application is submitted.
Learn more about where you can be when we make a decision on your application by reading the “Visa Outcome” section on this web page. (Below)
You cannot apply for this visa if you have already applied for or hold a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) (subclass 870) visa.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
If your subclass 884 visa is current or has ended within the last 28 days, complete Form 47PT Application for migration to Australia by a Contributory Parent (Temporary) or Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa holder.
If you do not hold, (or have never held) a subclass 884 visa, you must complete Form 47PA Application for a parent to migrate to Australia
Your sponsor will need to complete Form 40 Sponsorship for migration to Australia
Whether migrating or not, each member of the family unit aged 18 years or over must also complete Form 47A Details of child or other dependent family member aged 18 years or over.
You must complete all forms in English.
You must pay the first instalment when you apply. For payment options see how to pay.
You can't apply for this visa in person. Send the application by post or courier to the address on the form. Include all required documents, forms and evidence of visa application charge payment with your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
If you applied for a different parent visa, but we have not made a decision about that visa, you must withdraw that application at the same time that you apply for this visa.
You will need to complete either:
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. There are other things you need to know and might have to do.
We can't provide updates on your application's progress within normal processing times. We will let you know if you need to provide anything further.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. We need to know because you must be in Australia when we make our decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations
We will let you know when you need to provide character documents.
When we do, provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Learn more about police certificates.
Also provide:
Complete and provide Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not send us all the documents when you applied, send them to the Parent Visa Centre as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa in Australia, you are likely to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we make a decision on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
Pay the second instalment when we tell you to. We will send you an invoice for the instalment after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
You must pay the instalment or we can't grant the visa.
You might be able to add family members to your application before we make a decision.
Complete and send us Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement.
You will also need to provide evidence of your relationship and the family member’s passport.
Any family members you add to your application after you apply must be in Australia when you add them.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you make a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we make a decision on your application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant you the visa, we will let you know:
Keep a copy of our decision.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
See what to do if your situation changes.
See your visa conditions and work and study entitlements in VEVO.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
As a newly arrived resident, you might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived residents waiting periods from Services Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship.  Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.