Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888)
Investor stream
Permanently
From AUD3,400.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,400.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must also pay an extra charge unless the applicant has already paid this charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application. This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
You only need to pay it for family members who did not pay the second instalment charge for their Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188).
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application may take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
If you are outside Australia when we grant the visa:
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
You must be the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream.
If you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021, you must have held this visa for at least 3 years.
You can also apply if you are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream. If your spouse or de facto partner who is the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021, you must have held your visa for at least 3 years.
Arrangements were in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the concession period, you were able to apply for this visa if you:
For more information on the concession period, visit COVID-19 concession period.
You must have a current nomination from a state or territory.
When you applied for your provisional visa, you gave us an Expression of Interest. A state or territory saw your Expression of Interest and nominated you.
You do not need to provide a new Expression of Interest. But, the state or territory needs to confirm that your nomination is still current, for details see the Step by step tab
If you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream on or after 1 July 2021, when we granted your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa, you would have invested AUD2.5 million in a ‘complying significant investment’.
To be granted a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888), you (or you and your spouse or de facto partner combined) must:
If you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream before 1 July 2021, when your visa was granted, you invested AUD1.5 million in an Australian state or territory. We call this a 'designated investment'.
You must have held your designated investment for at least:
Your designated investment must have been held continuously in your name, or in the names of yourself and your spouse or de facto partner together.
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
You will continue to meet designated investment requirements if:
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, you must have been physically present  in Australia for at least 2 of the 4 years immediately before you apply if you are the holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Investor stream and you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021.
You must have been physically present in Australia for at least 2 years in the 3 years immediately before you apply if you are holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Investor stream and you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021.
Unless Covid-19 concessions apply, if you applied for this visa and are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream you must have been physically present in Australia for at least:
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
You must have been in Australia for a least 2 of the 4 years immediately before you apply. During the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, time spent overseas will count as time being in Australia if you were the holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream.
You can apply for this visa if you applied from 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’ and you:
Your first visa in the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream must have been granted on or before 30 June 2019.
You and your spouse or de facto partner must not have been involved in any business or investment activities that are unacceptable in Australia.
You must have a realistic commitment to continuing your business or investment activities in Australia.
If you operated a business in Australia, you and your partner must have followed:
This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations.
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application, who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application must have functional English . If you cannot show evidence of functional English, we will ask you to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
They will not need to pay a second instalment if they have already paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia must also meet our character requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time when the application is decided, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Unless Covid-19 concessions apply, you must be the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Investor stream. If you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021, you must also have held this visa for at least 2 years in the 3 years.
You can also apply if you are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream. If your spouse or de fact partner who is the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021, the secondary visa holder must have held their visa for at least 2 years in the 3 years.
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can also apply for this visa if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Investor stream which expired during the concession period.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can also apply for this visa, if you were the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and:
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents to be granted this visa.
You do not need to provide a new Expression of Interest. But the state or territory needs to confirm that your nomination is still current.
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You must give us documents proving your identity and about your business or investment activity. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents, if anyone in your application has been:
Also provide marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone applying for a visa in your application.
You do need to have a current nomination from a state or territory.
Fill out  Form 1414 Nomination - Business Skills class (306KB PDF). Then:
Provide:
Show us you have followed Australian laws if you operated a business in Australia. This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations. Provide:
The following applies to you if you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Investor stream before 1 July 2021:
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, you should give us evidence from the relevant State or Territory authority that you have held your designated investment of AUD1.5 million for at least:
If the investment has already matured, the evidence can be:
If COVID-19 concessions apply, give us evidence from the relevant State or Territory authority that you first withdrew funds from, or cancelled your designated investment during the ‘COVID-19 concession period’. You must have:
If you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream on or after 1 July 2021, when we granted your provisional visa, you invested AUD2.5 million in a ‘complying significant investment’.
Provide evidence:
If you were invited to apply for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream on or after 1 July 2021, when we granted your provisional visa, you would have invested AUD2.5 million in a ‘complying significant investment’.
If you were invited on or after 1 July 2021, evidencing of your complying significant investment includes:
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, you must have been in Australia for at least 2 years in the 4 years immediately before you apply as the holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Investor stream.
The 2 year period in Australia does not have to be continuous.
You must have been in Australia for a least 2 of the 4 years immediately before you apply.
During the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, time spent overseas will count as time being in Australia if you were the holder of one of the following visas:
Your visa must have been granted on or before 30 June 2019.
Evidence to prove where you lived can include:
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and all applicants aged 16 years and older, provide:
All applicants aged 18 years and older, who did not pay the second instalment of the visa application charge at provisional stage, must provide evidence they have at least functional English.
We will ask all applicants to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge if they:
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
If your partner holds a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa application as your dependent partner, we do not need evidence of your relationship.
If you are including a partner who does not hold a subclass 188 visa as your dependant,  we need to see evidence of your partner's relationship with you along with identity and character documents and documents about other relationships.
Provide:
Provide either:
If you and your partner have a child or children, and are both named as parents on the birth certificate, you will only need to provide a few documents.
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you must provide evidence:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
Otherwise, also provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply online in ImmiAccount.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the charge.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, you must make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as your can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA ceases when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn more about Bridging visas
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the instalment after you get the invoice. Do not ask for the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa application we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
We expect you to continue to undertake business and investment activities in Australia, following the intentions you outlined in your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
You can't add a family member to your application after we have granted the visa.
If a member of your family wants to join you later in Australia, they must apply for a separate visa that suits their situation. See their visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your Resident Return visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.