Foreign Affairs or Defence Sector visa (subclass 576)You can no longer apply for the Foreign Affairs or Defence Sector visa (subclass 576). It closed for new applications on 1 July 2016. From 1 July 2016, if you need to extend your stay in Australia, you must apply for a Student Visa (subclass 500).
Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Foreign Affairs or Defence Sector visa (subclass 576) or for people who applied for the visa on or before 30 June 2016 and for which a decision has not yet been made. It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use the free Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) to check your visa details and conditions
If you already have a Foreign Affairs or Defence Sector visa (subclass 576), it will be valid until the expiry date you were given when your visa was granted.
With this visa:
Obligations
You must comply with your visa conditions while studying and living in Australia or your visa could be cancelled. You must also comply with Australian laws.
Check which conditions apply to your visa with Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) or your visa grant letter.
If you are under 18 years of age you must maintain your accommodation, support and general welfare arrangements for the duration of your visa or until you turn 18.
If you do want to transfer to a different education provider, you must have a letter of support from DFAT or Department of Defence stating that your transfer has been approved by them.
Some visas are issued with a 'no further stay' condition. This condition means that you cannot apply to stay in Australia beyond the date specified on your visa, except in certain circumstances.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
Your dependent family members must maintain their visa conditions. A breach of these conditions may result in your visa being cancelled and you may have to leave Australia.
Your family members must:
Important: It is your responsibility to ensure that your family members meet the above conditions.