Special Purpose visa
You can stay in Australia temporarily for as long as you have a 'prescribed status', unless we cease your visa for another reason.
If you are an airline crew member, aircraft safety inspector or airline positioning crew member see Crew Travel Authority.
There are no processing times available for this visa.
See all conditions
have a 'prescribed status'. This includes but is not limited to being:
With this visa you can, depending on your prescribed status
How long you can stay
You can stay in Australia on a temporary basis for as long as you have a 'prescribed status'. Your visa will cease if:
Stay longer
Your visa will cease if your 'prescribed status' ends. If you want to stay longer in Australia you must apply for a different visa.
Explore your visa options.
Include family
In some limited circumstances, your partner or dependent relative may be eligible for a Special Purpose visa. Find out about eligibility.
Cost
There is no application charge for this visa.
Your obligations
The Special Purpose visa is only valid as long as you have a 'prescribed status'. If your prescribed status ends, the visa will cease.
You must obey all Australian laws.
You must comply with all legal obligations attached to your prescribed status.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can enter and depart Australia as many times as you want as long as you hold the prescribed status.
Visa label
As this temporary visa is based on your prescribed status it may not be linked to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
To have a prescribed status, this includes but is not limited to being:
You must be an:
See: Crew Travel Authority
You must be:
You must be a member of:
You are also eligible if you are the accompanying spouse, de facto partner or dependent relative of an eligible armed forces member and are listed on the members military travel orders.
See: Military personnel travelling with restricted goods
You must have a valid passport or other travel document.
Military personnel must travel with Military ID and Movement orders indicating their travel to Australia. Dependants must travel with their valid national passport and a certificate or letter stating that they are a dependant of the primary Military person.
Airline Crew must hold a valid passport and Airline Identity Card and be included on the crew list, or carry a letter from their employer indicating the purpose of travel as airline positioning crew.
We will grant you the Special Purpose visa when you enter Australia.
The Special Purpose visa is a temporary visa that is only valid as long as you have a 'prescribed status'. If your prescribed status ends, the visa will cease.
You must follow all Australian laws.
You must comply with all legal obligations attached to your eligibility status.
The Special Purpose visa lets you:
If you are a spouse, de facto partner or dependent relative of an eligible armed forces member, and listed on the travel orders as accompanying them to Australia, you are able to work and study while in Australia.
If you are an airline crew member, airline positioning crew member or an aircraft safety inspector, see Crew Travel Authority
Your visa will cease if your 'prescribed status' ends. If you want to stay longer in Australia you must apply for a different visa.
Explore your visa options.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.