Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189)
Hong Kong stream
Permanently
From AUD4,765.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply now
With this visa you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Family members included in your application must meet our health and character requirements. Family members not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,765.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,885.00.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
Your obligations
You and your family must follow Australian laws.
Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must hold an eligible visa at the time your visa application is made, and you must have held that visa for at least 4 years prior to that date. Multiple visas, including visas of the same subclass, cannot be combined to meet this requirement.
An eligible visa is a subclass 457, 482 or 485 visa that was granted to you on the basis of satisfying the primary criteria.
If your eligible visa was granted before 9 July 2020
Your visa must not expire after 8 July 2025.
If your eligible visa was granted on or after 9 July 2020
Your visa must be valid for 5 years.
You must hold a Hong Kong or British National (Overseas) passport at the time your visa application is made.
You must have been usually resident in Australia for a continuous period of at least 4 years immediately before the date of your application.
The place that a person is 'usually resident' in is assessed by taking into account their physical residence (where the person eats, sleeps, has a home) and the person's intention to make that place their home.
You must have complied with the conditions attached to your eligible visa when in Australia. This requirement applies for the whole period you hold the visa(s).
At the time we make a decision on your application you must:
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement. Family members not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet the health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We will also need other family members not accompanying you to Australia to meet the character requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Check that you meet requirements for this visa, including the residence requirements.
We prefer that you have any health checks before you apply for the visa.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide identity, character and other documents that evidence that you meet the criteria for this visa. Where applicable, your partner and any dependent children will also need to provide documents evidencing that they meet the criteria specific to them.
Provide accurate information. See what may happen if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You must prove you have been usually resident in Australia for a continuous period of at least 4 years immediately before the date of the application.
The place that a person is 'usually resident' is assessed taking into account their physical residence (where the person eats, sleeps, has a home) and the person's intention to make that place their home.
This evidence should include the date you consider you began living in Australia.
Your evidence might include but is not limited to:
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We don't accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police. For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof that all applicants aged 18 years and older have at least functional English.
Applicants aged 18 years and older, who can't provide evidence of functional English, will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask for it.
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as marriage certificate, divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Provide:
For de facto relationships provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
You don't have to prove that your dependant under 18 years of age has functional English.
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Family members included in your application do not need an eligible visa unless they are no longer considered a member of the family unit. In this case, they must hold an eligible visa granted on the basis they were a member of your family unit.
Dependants over 18 without an eligible visa
If your child is over 18 years of age and does not hold an eligible visa, they must meet additional requirements to be included in your application.
If your child is:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof your child is dependent on you.
Note: A child cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa if they turn 23 while your application is being processed and they do not meet these requirements.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited but on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be inside or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If you are granted a bridging visa you will receive notification of your visa grant.
We do not give updates on applications under assessment.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and we may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you made a valid application for this visa in Australia, you are usually eligible to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will come into effect if you do not hold another substantive visa.
You can stay in Australia lawfully as the holder of a substantive or bridging visa while we process your visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, pay it when we send you the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF), pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia do have to meet our character requirement and might have to meet our health requirement.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but not in immigration clearance. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, you must enter Australia before a date that we specify on your visa grant letter.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
You and your family members must obey Australian laws.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia. To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
Check the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.