Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Sponsored family stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Up to 12 months
AUD195.00. We might ask your sponsor to pay a security bond.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
You should check if a Visitor (subclass 600) visa in the Tourist stream might better suit you. The Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream visa also lets you holiday in Australia to see family and friends and does not require a sponsor.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
With this visa you can
You can study or train for up to 3 months in total on this visa. If your main reason for travelling to Australia is study, a student visa might be more appropriate.
You can't work.
You should check if a Visitor (subclass 600) visa in the Tourist stream might better suit you. The Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream visa also lets you holiday in Australia to see family and friends and does not require a sponsor.
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia - that is, we do not consider you have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We might grant it for up to 12 months.
We determine the length of your visa on a case by case basis. Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
You might not be granted the length of stay you want.
Generally we grant this visa with only one entry permitted. This means that after you leave Australia you need to apply for another visa before you can return.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
You can't apply for a new visa in Australia because your visa will have condition 8503, 'No Further Stay'. In limited circumstances, you might be able to request a waiver of the No Further Stay condition.
You must not breach condition 8531. That is, you must not remain in Australia beyond your visa period.
You can explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
If other family members are applying for this visa, your applications can be processed together. Learn more when you apply for the visa.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs AUD195.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you obtain health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
If we grant you a multiple-entry visa, you can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If we grant you a single-entry visa and you leave Australia, you can't re-enter on the visa. You must apply for another visa to come back.
Check if you have multiple or single entry in Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) or your visa grant letter.
Visa record
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.​​
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
We might expect other family members to meet the requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
You must have, or have access to, enough money to support yourself while you are in Australia.
You must only intend to:
You must have a sponsor.
To learn about who can sponsor you, see the Sponsor Eligibility tab.
If a family member wants to support you without becoming a sponsor, you can apply for a Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream. Provide a letter of invitation from your family member with your application.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
You can complete your health examinations before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Provide as much proof as you can to show you are visiting Australia as a temporary visitor only. This could include:
Proof that you have reasons to return home such as:
Your sponsor must complete Form 1149 - Application for sponsorship for Sponsored Family Visitors (329KB PDF). Provide a copy of the completed form with your application.
Provide any military service record or discharge papers, if applicable.
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You don't need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear and legible.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
We will let you know if you need to provide biometrics.
If you didn't have health exams before you applied for the visa, have them if we tell you to.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, send them via ImmiAccount as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
We will let you know our decision on your visa application in writing. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of our decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
You must have:
Everyone who arrives in Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card.
A SmartGate is an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use the  SmartGate.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
This visa lets you:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
Volunteer work tourism schemes
You can't work in Australia on a Visitor visa, but you might be able to do volunteer work.
If your visa is granted with multiple entries, you can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If your visa is granted with single entry and you leave Australia, you can't re-enter on the visa. You have to apply for another visa to come back.
See when you must leave in VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. See your options.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Departures SmartGate
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use the SmartGates.
International Movement Record
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.