Subclass 802
Child visa (Subclass 802)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Permanently
From AUD3,140.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa the child can
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility of this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
The child becomes a permanent resident the day we grant the visa.
Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply, submit separate applications for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each dependent child who applies for the visa with you.
There might be other costs for health exams, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when the application is submitted and when we make a decision.
The child can't apply for this visa if they are in Australia on another visa with a no further stay condition.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge is not paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
The child's obligations
The child and any dependants must obey all Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
The child must be dependent on a parent who is an:
They can be their parent's:
A child does not meet the dependency requirement, if the stepparent is the current spouse or de facto partner of the child’s biological or adopted parent.
To be eligible for this visa, the adoption must have been finalised before the child turned 18.

The adoption can have happened either before or after the parent became an Australian citizen, Australian permanent visa holder or eligible New Zealand citizen.
If the child was adopted after their parent became an Australian citizen, Australian permanent visa holder or eligible New Zealand citizen, they must have been adopted:
Learn more about adopting a child overseas from Intercountry Adoptions Australia.​​
It is recommended that you obtain independent legal advice both in Australia and in the child’s country of usual residence before proceeding with an expatriate adoption as there are risks for both the child and the adoptive parents in this process.
To be eligible for this visa, a stepchild must:
The step-parent must also have either:
The child may apply for Australian citizenship by descent instead of a visa to travel to Australia, if:
The child must be sponsored by an eligible parent or their parent's spouse or de facto partner.
We must approve the sponsorship. We might not approve sponsorship if the sponsor or their partner has been charged or convicted of offences involving children. Learn more about measures for the protection of children.
The child must be either:
If the child is over 18 and under 25 years old they:
The child is a full-time student if they are:
The child should have started study since turning 18 years of age or within 6 months (or a reasonable time) of finishing school. Any gaps of more than 6 months between their final year of school and the start of their further studies must be explained.
If the child is 18 years or older with a disability, they:
The child:
If the child is over 18, they must never have been married or had a de facto partner.
The child and any of their dependent children who apply for the visa with them must meet our health requirement.
Dependent children who are not applying for the visa might also need to meet our health requirement.
If the child is aged 16 years and over they must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that their dependent children who apply for the visa with them meet the requirement.
If the child or any member of their family owes the Australian Government money, it must be paid back or there must be a formal arrangement to pay it back.
Children aged 18 or older must:
We will consider the child’s immigration history when we make a decision on the application, which means the child might not be eligible for this visa if they have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances, the child may still apply for a permanent visa if they have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If immigration assistance is needed, see Who can help with your visa application.
We will only grant this visa to a child younger than 18 years if either:
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
Check the child's passport is valid. Tell us if someone is acting on the child's behalf.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide documents in support of the visa application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if the child's identity can't be established or false information is provided.
Provide the pages of the child's current passport showing their photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If the child was adopted, provide certified copies of the adoption papers or the adoption compliance certificate.
Provide a certified copy of the passport or travel document the child used to enter Australia and any passports the child has held since then.
Provide 4 recent passport-size photos (45mm x 35mm) of the child and for any dependent child included in the application.
Photographs must be:
The child can wear untinted prescription glasses. If the child wears a head covering for religious reasons, they can show only their face.
Provide evidence the child is related to their parent, such as:
If the child was adopted, provide the child's adoption papers or adoption compliance certificate.
Where an adoption involved an Australian state or territory central adoption authority, including a letter supporting the adoption.
If the child was adopted through an expatriate adoption process, provide evidence that:
If the child is over 18 when the application is made, provide evidence the child is dependent on their parent for basic needs such as food, shelter and clothing, and how long this support has been provided. Evidence could include:
Depending on the child's situation, we might require other documents.
Provide evidence the child is enrolled and actively participating as a full-time student in a post-secondary course of study.
Provide a statement to explain any gaps longer than 6 months between their final year of secondary school and further studies.
Provide evidence from a qualified medical practitioner the applicant has a total or partial loss of mental or body function that stops them from working.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with the child, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who has a legal right to decide where the child lives.
They must complete either:
Include an identity document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you can show us:
We might ask you to provide an Australian state or territory police certificate if you have lived in an Australian state or territory for at least 12 months.
If you have lived for at least 12 months in an overseas country, we might ask you to provide a police certificate from that country.
If anyone included in the application has served in the armed forces of any country, they must provide their military service record or discharge papers.
Children over 16 years of age must complete and provide Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment (596KB PDF).
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Do not certify police certificates. You need to send us the originals.
Have all other documents certified. This includes:
Photographs of the applicant and any of their dependent children included in the application must also be certified.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
Send us:
You must apply for this visa on paper.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Complete the following 2 forms and send them together:
The forms must be completed in English.
Pay for the application before it is submitted using the online portal payment function in ImmiAccount. Include evidence the application is paid for with your application. For other payment options see how to pay.
Applications for this visa can't be submitted in person. Send the application by post or courier to the Child and Other Family Processing Centre in Perth at the address on the form. Include all required documents and forms with your application.
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will let the applicant know when we have received the application and documents. There might be other things to do or be aware of after applying.
We can't provide updates on the progress of the child's application within normal processing times. We will let you know if we need anything further.
Tell us if the child needs to travel outside Australia while we process their application. We need to know because the child must be in Australia when we make our decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure the child has a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know when to arrange the child’s health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if the child needs to provide them.
If you lodged the application on or after 1 April 2020:
If you lodged the application before April 2020:
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Make sure the child stays lawful by holding a valid visa while we process their application.
When the visa application was made, the child was granted a bridging visa associated with the application. If their current visa expires before we make a decision, the bridging visa will start. The child can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process their new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add the child's dependent children to the their visa application any time before we make a decision.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
The child must be in Australia when we make our decision.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant the visa, we will advise:
Keep a copy of the grant letter with you when in Australia.
If we refuse the child's visa, we will advise:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse the application.
The child and family members must obey all Australian laws.
Things we need to know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in the child's situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
The child becomes a permanent resident the day we grant the visa.
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility of this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
The child may be able to work or study in Australia from the date we grant this visa. They are protected by Australian workplace law. See their workplace rights and entitlements.
You can't add a family member after we have decided the application.
If we have made a decision on your visa and you want to bring a family member to Australia, you will need to submit a new visa application for them.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, the child might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, the child's permanent residence starts the day we grant the visa.
The child must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check if the child needs a Resident Return visa to return to Australia as a permanent resident in VEVO.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request the child's international movement records to get proof of their travel in and out of Australia.