Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme visa (subclass 187)
Direct entry stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Permanently
N/A
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa – it lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day the visa is granted.
Your permanent residency for citizenship purposes starts:
Include family
You can:
For this visa, your family members are:
You can also include someone who holds a subclass 457 visa or subclass 482 visa if we granted them that visa on the basis they are a member of your family.
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet the requirements.
You might have to pay an extra charge for family members 18 years old or older who have less than Functional English. This charge is called the second instalment.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa. If you are in Australia you must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging visa A, B or C.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You must begin your employment within 6 months of:
Travel
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be nominated by an employer for this visa. We can only approve your nomination if your occupation is on the relevant list of skilled occupations.
Unless exempt, most applicants need to have at least 3 years relevant work experience in their occupation.
You are exempt from the 3 year work experience requirement if you currently hold a Special Category visa (subclass 444) or New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa (subclass 461).
You must have a positive skills assessment if your occupation is listed on IMMI 12/096 Specification of Occupations and Assessing Authorities. The assessment will show us you have the skills to work in the nominated occupation.
Learn more about skills assessments.
You don't need a skills assessment if you:
You also don't need a skills assessment if:
In this case, you must:
You must be licensed, registered or a member of a professional body if it is mandatory in the state or territory you intend to work in.
You must be nominated by an Australian employer whose business is actively and lawfully operating in Australia.
You must apply for the visa within 6 months of the nomination being approved.
Find out if your employer is eligible to nominate you.
We can't grant you a visa if:
We can’t link a new nomination to your existing visa application. If this happens one possible option is to withdraw your first visa application and submit a new visa application in relation to the new nomination.
You might be eligible for a refund of the visa application charge depending on the circumstances.
Usually, you must be under 45 years of age when you apply.
You are exempt from this criteria if any of the following applies to you:
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Other family members will also need to meet the requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Other family members will also need to meet the requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
You must have at least Competent English to be granted this visa.
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
You might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused while you were in Australia. Check if visa cancellation affects your eligibility.
Get a skills assessment if you need to. The assessment will prove you have the right skills and qualifications to do your job.
Make sure your English test results are current for this visa. Have English exams if necessary
You need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
You don’t have to use a migration agent to apply for any visa. But if you want to, see how to find a registered migration agent.
Anyone can help you fill out forms or give you general help with your application. But you must let us know if you want someone to:
Make sure your employer has submitted a nomination application. They will receive a nomination Transaction Reference Number (TRN) when they do.
Ask your employer for the TRN. You need it to apply for the visa.
Criminal and civil penalties can be applied to anyone who asks for, receives, offers or provides a benefit in exchange for visa sponsorship. Learn more about work visa scams.
New step description
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide evidence of any licence, registration or professional membership mandatory to perform the nominated occupation in the state or territory you intend to work in, if applicable.
If you are a doctor, provide one of these certificates issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency as proof of full registration:
If you are a barrister or solicitor, provide proof of admission to practise as a lawyer in the relevant state or territory.
Provide either:
Provide all of the following:
If you are a doctor, provide one of these certificates issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency as proof of full registration:
If you are a barrister or solicitor, provide proof of admission to practise as a lawyer in the relevant state or territory.
If you are exempt from having a skills assessment, provide proof of this.
You are exempt from the need to have a skills assessment if you:
You also don't need a skills assessment if:
In this case, you must:
If you are 45 years old or older, provide documents to show you are exempt from the age eligibility criteria.
You are exempt from this criteria if any of the following apply to you:
See more about age, skill and English language exemptions in the relavant legislative instrument, IMMI 18/045.
Provide documents that show you have Competent English.
You do not need to provide health documents. If you have had medical exams, the results are sent to us by your doctor.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police . We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police. For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
To nominate someone to:
See more about getting help with your application.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove a de facto relationship include:
You must show that your partner has Functional English
If you can't show that your dependant has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
For every dependant under 18 years who is applying with you provide:
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively you must provide evidence that you have the legal right to determine where the dependent child lives, such as a court order.
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you provide:
You need to prove that this person is a family member and/or dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
For other family members, if applicable, provide evidence the person:
You must show that your family member has Functional English.
If you can't show that your family member has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
This visa is closed to new applications
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We can’t give updates on applications within the time.
Wait for us to contact you.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we decide on your application.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
We might ask you to provide more information. Attach any additional documents we ask you for as soon as possible in ImmiAccount..
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa in Australia, you are likely to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the instalment after you get the invoice. Do not ask for the invoice.
You can add family members to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
For the purpose of adding family members to this visa, your family members are:
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
See more about withdrawing your nomination.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we decide on your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the visa application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card during your flight.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the Special Category visa (subclass 444). Grant of a subclass 444 visa will override your permanent visa and might affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You must begin your employment within 6 months of:
Permanently
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
When you work in Australia, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible relatives to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your relatives, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid
Check your conditions and the expiry of your visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.