Temporary Work (Skilled) visa (subclass 457)On 18 April 2017, the Hon Malcolm Turnbull MP, Prime Minister of Australia and the Hon Peter Dutton MP, Minister for Immigration and Border Protection jointly announced that the Temporary Work (Skilled) visa (subclass 457 visa) will be abolished and replaced with the completely new Temporary Skill Shortage (TSS) visa which will support businesses in addressing genuine skill shortages.

About this visa
The Temporary Work (Skilled) visa (subclass 457) allows skilled workers to come to Australia and work for an approved business for up to:
To hold this visa you must have been sponsored by an approved business.
To maintain flexibility in the Subclass 457 visa program, certain aspects of the program are subject to change from time to time. The aspects of the program that might change are contained in what is known as a legislative instrument.
For nomination applications lodged on or after 17 January 2018, the skilled occupations listed in the following legislative instrument are eligible for subclass 457 visas.
See: IMMI 18/004: Specification of Occupations - Subclass 457 visa. .
For nomination applications lodged before 17 January 2018, the skilled occupations listed in the following legislative instrument are eligible for subclass 457 visas.
See: IMMI 17/060: Specification of Occupations—Subclass 457 Visa.
For a list of postcodes considered to be regional Australia where a regional caveat applies.
See:  IMMI 17/059: Regional Certifying Bodies and Regional Postcodes..
The instrument below lists the tests and scores that are required to demonstrate English language proficiency for subclass 457 visa applicants. It also outlines exempted situations where applicants are not required to demonstrate their English proficiency.
See:  IMMI 17/057: English Language Requirements for Subclass 457 visas .
Training Benchmarks
The instrument below lists the requirements to meet the required training benchmarks to be eligible for sponsorship under the subclass 457 visa program.
See:  IMMI 17/045: Specification of Training Benchmarks and Training Requirements .
The instrument below lists the dollar amounts for the Temporary Skilled Migration Income Threshold (TSMIT) and the exemption from the requirement to demonstrate equivalent terms and conditions of employment (market salary rates).
See:  IMMI 13/028: Temporary Skilled Migration Income Threshold (TSMIT) and market rates exemption level .
The instrument below specifies the method for determining the terms and conditions of employment (market salary rates) where there is no equivalent Australian worker in that location.
See:  IMMI 09/113: Specification of method to determine terms and conditions of employment.
The instrument below lists the occupations where the requirement to work directly for the sponsor is waived.
See:  IMMI 13/067: Specification of Occupations for Nominations in Relation to Subclass 457 for Positions other than in the Business of the Nominator .
Labour market testing
The instrument below specifies the period in which labour market testing must be undertaken.
See:  IMMI 13/136: Specified period in which labour market testing must be undertaken .
The instrument below specifies the occupations which are exempt from labour market testing.
See:  IMMI 13/137: Specification of occupations exempt from labour market testing .
The instrument below lists the international trade obligations which are inconsistent with the labour market testing requirement (i.e. where labour market testing is not required).
See:  IMMI 17/109: Determination of International Trade Obligations relating to Labour Market Testing .
Visa applicants
This visa is now closed to new applications
They must also be able to show they have the same levels of financial support as you.
Your sponsor must agree in writing to include them as secondary sponsored persons. They can do this by including the details of your family members in the nomination application, or by providing this information in a letter to be attached to your visa application.
You can track and manage your application using ImmiAccount.
You can provide more information to us at any time until a decision is made on the application. If you want to correct information you provided, use:
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
You can provide additional information, including Form 1023, using ImmiAccount.
If another person gives us information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
You might also be interviewed. If you are asked to attend an interview in person, bring your passport or other identification and any requested documents to the interview.
To help us locate your application quickly, include the following with any information you give us:
Report changes in your situation​. See more information if you are withdrawing your application.
Visa holders
This visa can be valid for up to:
You will need to check the letter you received from us when your visa was granted to confirm the date your visa expires. If you no longer have this letter, you can access VEVO instead.
If your sponsor is a start-up business or has traded in Australia for less than 12 months, then the visa will be granted for 18 months.
Note: Subclass 457 visas granted under a Labour Agreement will be granted for 4 years unless the agreement specifies a shorter period.
This visa allows you to:
If you are granted a subclass 457 visa, there are certain conditions that apply to you depending on whether you are the primary or a secondary visa holder. You must comply with the visa condition or conditions that apply to you. Failure to do so might result in your visa being cancelled.
Mandatory Condition 8107
These conditions apply to all primary subclass 457 visa holders. You must:
If you hold a subclass 457 visa or your last substantive visa was a subclass 457 visa and your employment with your sponsor ends, you can stop working or work outside of the above conditions for a limited time:
These time periods start from 1 July 2024. They do not include any earlier time periods when you stopped working under the condition in place before that date.
You must also:
If your visa was granted on or after 1 December 2015 you must also:
Email: sponsor.notifications@abf.gov.au.
You are considered to have ceased employment when either you or your employer notifies us of the date you stopped work.
If you stop working for your sponsor, you have up to 180 days to:
If more than 180 consecutive days have passed since the date your sponsor advised us you would be ceasing employment on, you could be in breach of Condition 8107 and your visa could be cancelled.
If you abandon your employment, or are absent without leave, you could be considered to have ceased employment.
If your visa is about to expire and you want to keep working in Australia, you must apply for another visa.
If you want to change your employer and/or nominated occupation while you still hold a valid 457 visa you do not need to apply for a new subclass 457 visa. Your sponsor, new or existing, must lodge a new nomination and this must be approved before you commence working for the new sponsor or in the new nominated position.
Medical practitioners and general managers
Medical practitioners and general managers must work in their nominated occupation but they can work for employers other than their sponsor or an associated entity of their sponsor.
The specific occupations that this applies to are listed in Exemption from the requirement to work directly for the sponsor .
Condition 8501 is mandatory on all primary and secondary visas. You may also have additional conditions imposed on your subclass 457 visa, including: 8502, 8516, 8522, 8525 and 8526.
For information on any conditions imposed on your visa, please check the letter you received from us when your visa was granted. If you no longer have this letter, you can access VEVO instead.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, a pregnancy, birth or death or any changes in the composition of your family.
You can use the following forms:
You might be able to update your address and passport details using ImmiAccount.
If your child is born in Australia while you hold a 457 visa, you must notify us in writing. Your child will then hold a subclass 457 visa.
You must provide a copy of your child’s Australian birth certificate and the personal details page of their passport. This is particularly important if you are intending to travel outside Australia after the birth of your child.
You must email this information to ESPD@homeaffairs.gov.au . General enquiries submitted to this email address will not be responded to.
If you have been granted a subclass 457 visa and you want to change your employer or occupation you are not required to apply for a new visa, however before you start working for a new employer or in a new occupation, you must be nominated by your proposed new employer and have that nomination approved first.
The approval of a new nomination only allows you to change your employer or occupation. It does not extend the length of your subclass 457 visa and does not change the conditions attached to it.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have a valid visa to remain in Australia at all times. To check the visa conditions and expiry date of your visa, refer to VEVO.
If you have been laid off and are currently unemployed, you have up to 180 days to find a new employer or make arrangements to leave Australia.
All employees in Australia are covered by the Fair Work Act 2009. This includes you as a subclass 457 visa holders. For more information, see Workplace rights for all visa holders working in Australia. ​​​​​
Sponsors
Sponsorships for Australian businesses can be valid for:
Sponsorships for Overseas businesses can be valid for:
As of 3 March 2018, all sponsorships approved will be valid for five years.
If you have a labour agreement in place, you are an approved sponsor for the term of the agreement.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. Use the following forms:
You might be able to update your address details using ImmiAccount.
The types of changes that must be notified are:
Changing your business structure
Sponsorship obligations apply to all sponsors of subclass 457 visa holders. They are in place to ensure that overseas skilled workers are protected from exploitation, and that the subclass 457 visa programme is being used to meet genuine skills shortages, and not to undercut local labour wages and conditions.
Some obligations apply beyond the term of sponsorship approval.
As a sponsor you must:
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
If you are a standard business sponsor, the terms and conditions of employment for the person you have sponsored must be no less favourable than those you provide, or would provide to an Australian performing equivalent work in the same location. Further, if you are a standard business sponsor, the terms and conditions of employment for the person you have sponsored must be no less favourable than the terms and conditions you advised you would be providing to the sponsored person at the time of the nomination.
This obligation does not apply to a sponsor if the annual earnings of their sponsored visa holder are equal to, or greater than AUD250,000.
If you sponsor someone under a work agreement, you must ensure that the people you sponsor are paid the amount specified in the work agreement.
This obligation starts on the day (whichever is the earliest):
This obligation ends either:
If the sponsored visa holder is granted another subclass 457 visa to continue to work for you, this obligation continues.
You must keep records that show your compliance with your sponsorship obligations. All of the records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person. Records that must be kept, in addition to records that must be kept under other Australian Government, and state or territory laws, include the following:
The obligation starts the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement begins.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We might ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of Subclass 457 visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.
Examples of events include (but are not limited to):
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Changes or events that all sponsors must notify within 28 calendar days
You must notify us within 28 calendar days if:
If your business is a company
A company must also notify us of the following changes or events within 28 calendar days if:
If you are an individual
If you operate your business as an individual, you must also notify us of the following changes or events within 28 calendar days:
If your business is a partnership
You must also notify us of the following changes or events within 28 calendar days:
If your business is an unincorporated association
An unincorporated association must also notify us within 28 calendar days if:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@abf.gov.au
By registered post:
You must ensure that the person you have sponsored participates only in the occupation, program or activity for which you nominated them. If you want to engage a visa holder for a different occupation, program or activity, you must lodge a new nomination application. This obligation starts on the day the person you have sponsored is granted a visa. If they already hold a visa when you nominate them, your obligation starts on the day the nomination is approved.
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
If you are a standard business sponsor, you must employ the person you have sponsored under a written contract of employment. They cannot work for another business, and you cannot supply them to another business. If you were lawfully operating a business in Australia at the time you were approved as a standard business sponsor, the person might work for an associated entity.
You cannot engage in activities related to the recruitment or hire of the sponsored visa holder to another business unless it is an associated entity and you lawfully operated a business in Australia at the time you were approved as a standard business sponsor (or at the time the terms of your approval were last varied).
The only exception to this rule is if the sponsored visa holder’s occupation is an exempt occupation for the purposes of this obligation.
The obligation ends on the day the sponsored visa holder is granted another substantive visa of a different subclass from the one they last held. The obligation continues if the sponsored visa holder is granted another subclass 457 visa to continue to work for you.
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
You must pay reasonable and necessary travel costs to enable the sponsored person and their sponsored family members to leave Australia. They must ask you in writing for you to pay the costs. We can also make a written request on their behalf.

The costs will be considered reasonable and necessary if they include all of the following:
Travel costs must be paid within 30 days of receiving the request.
You will only be required to pay return travel costs once. If a sponsored person returns to Australia (whilst holding the visa for which you sponsored them) after you have paid their return travel costs, you will not be required to pay their return travel costs again.
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you might be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You might be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10,000) less any amount which might have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’ above).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen. It ends five years after they leave Australia. This means that we might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
If you are a standard business sponsor and you lawfully operated a business in Australia at the time you were approved as a standard business sponsor (or at the time you had your terms of approval varied). You must contribute to the training of Australians by either:
The obligation begins on the day you are approved as a sponsor. You must meet this obligation in each 12 month period within which you employ a sponsored visa holder (including if the sponsored visa holder is not employed by you for the full twelve months). Where your approval as a standard business sponsor is varied, you must meet the training requirement if you employ one or more primary sponsored persons.
The obligation ends either:
If you are a standard business sponsor who lawfully operates a business in Australia, you must not engage in, or have not engaged in, discriminatory recruitment practices that adversely affect Australian citizens, or any other person, based on their visa or citizenship status.
You should keep documents on hand that demonstrate that the recruitment process in relation to a subclass 457 holder did not discriminate based on citizenship or visa status.
Note: This new obligation was introduced on 19 April 2016. It is not engaged if discrimination in recruitment decisions is evident on other grounds such as sex, gender, race, social group or pregnancy. These issues are outside the remit of us and should be directed to other relevant agencies, such as the Fair Work Ombudsman or the Australian Human Rights Commission.
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be monitored by Immigrations inspectors, Fair Work Inspectors or Fair Work Building Industry Inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
Subject to legislation passing, the Department will publish information identifying sponsors who have not complied with their sponsorship obligations and any action taken against them. Further information will be available if this occurs.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking. Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if:
The types of actions that could be taken depend on whether the sponsor is a standard business sponsor or has made a work agreement.
If you have sponsored someone under a work agreement, we could suspend or terminate it in accordance with the clauses of the particular work agreement.
See: Adverse information
Nomination
Nomination is the process of identifying a position to be filled by a skilled worker from outside Australia in an approved business. Nomination is required for both standard business sponsors and parties to a labour agreement.
The nomination process identifies:
An approval of a nomination ceases on the earliest of the following: