Medical Practitioner visa (subclass 422)You cannot apply for this visa.
Check the visa finder tool to see which visa you can apply for.

Visa holders
This visa allows you and any family members who have also been granted the visa to:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must:
If your employment ends, you must do one of the following:
You are responsible for all your health costs while you are in Australia. You and your family must have adequate private medical and hospital health insurance for the time you are in Australia unless your country has a reciprocal health care agreementwith Australia and you are enrolled with Medicare. . You can use an insurance company from in or outside Australia.
You must comply with Australia’s taxation law if you work in Australia. The Australian Taxation Office's website has more information.
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.
If you need to add a dependent to your visa, you will need to contact the responsible processing centre.
The processing centre in Melbourne CBD is responsible for the following states:
The processing center for Perth is responsible for the following states:
The Processing center for Sydney CBD is responsible for the following states:
Sponsors
Your sponsorship of the medical practitioner lasts for the duration of their visa.
If sponsorship information needs to be updated contact the responsible processing centre
The processing centre in Melbourne CBD is responsible for the following states:
The processing center for Perth is responsible for the following states:
The Processing center for Sydney CBD is responsible for the following states: