Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Significant Investor Extension stream
Extend stay for up to 4 years
From AUD1,170.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa.
If you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream at the time of application and you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021, you can stay for 7 years after the date of the grant of your original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream.
If you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream at the time of application and you were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay for 6 years after the date of the grant of your original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream.
If you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021 and you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor Extension stream at the time of application, you can stay for up to 9 years after the date of the grant of your original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream.
If you were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021 and if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor Extension stream at the time of application, you can stay for 8 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa is valid from the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
If you need more time to meet the requirements of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream visa, you can apply for a second Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.  A person can be granted a maximum of 2 Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream visas.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add dependent children to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
In order for the main applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD1,170.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant who was at least 18 years old at the time of application, and is assessed as not having functional English, and has not paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for their Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa will have to pay this extra charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant the visa to that applicant.
The second instalment charges are:
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost you. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more conditions for this visa.
To be eligible for the grant of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, you must live in Australia for at least 40 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. Or your spouse must live in Australia for at least 180 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. These days do not need to be consecutive.
You must continue to hold a complying significant investment continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
You can switch between complying significant investments if:
If you reinvest funds into a complying significant investment within 30 days, we regard that as holding it continuously.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital or emerging company investments, you must reinvest the funds into venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from the 'balancing investment' category of investments, you can reinvest them into another balancing investment, venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital because the venture capital investment has been realised, you must reinvest those funds. You can reinvest it in any eligible complying significant investment.
Income that you earn from your complying significant investment in Australia may be subject to tax under Australian taxation law.
The rules that were in force at the time that you applied for your first Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream will continue to apply for the duration of your provisional visa, including any Extension stream visas you apply for that relate to that provisional visa.
You might want to seek independent legal advice to ensure that an investment is a 'complying significant investment'. It is your responsibility to ensure your investment choices comply with the requirements of this visa.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
You must not have held more than one Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor Extension stream visa.
You must continue to hold your complying significant investment in accordance with the complying investment framework in place at the time you applied for this visa.
You and your partner must have had no history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application, who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application must have functional English. If you are unable to prove functional English, we will ask you to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
They will not need to pay a second instalment if they have already paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
You and any family who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If requested, family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health requirement.
Do not undertake health examinations until we ask you.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who have not applied for the visa must also meet the character requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for this visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must show that it has been paid back or there is an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Note: the rules that were in force at the time that you applied for your first provisional Significant Investor visa will continue to apply for the duration of your provisional visa, including any Extension stream visas you apply for that relate to that provisional visa.
You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your proposed investment.  You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
The rules for complying investments changed on 1 July 2015 and on 1 July 2021. For that reason, the evidence you need to give us depends on when you applied for your provisional visa.
If you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021
Evidence of your investment can include:
If you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2015
Evidence of your investment can include:
If you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa before 1 July 2015
Evidence of your investment can include:
All holding statements must show the investor name, amount and commencement date.
If you invested in an Australian proprietary company, please provide us with:
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application, must either have at least functional English or you will be asked to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
If you can't provide functional English documents
If you or any family members applying with you have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you, provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide:
If your partner was not included in the initial 188 application also provide:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Proof of dependency
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified. If you provide colour scanned copies of the documents by email. If you provide photocopies of documents by mail, the photocopies must be certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
If you are applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must hold a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa in the Significant Investor stream or the Significant Investor Extension stream.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams.
Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Have all forms and documents ready before you submit your application.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
Applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in the Significant Investor Extension stream via ImmiAccount.
Attaching more information
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without requesting more documents.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
Health examination results are generally valid for 12 months. If your previous health clearance for subclass 188 visa is more than 12 months old, you will need to undertake new health examinations.
Do not undertake health examinations until we ask you to.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can.
If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere send your documents to us through ImmiAccount.
Attach more information
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without requesting more documents.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA ceases when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn more about Bridging visas
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You can add your dependent child or children to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know our decision in writing. If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
Before you leave
Check your travel documents
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get the card on board the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
What you can do when you have this visa
This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members who are part of your application must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your visa conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
In particular, you must maintain your investment and comply with Australian workplace laws.
You must hold a complying significant investment continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
This is a provisional visa. You can extend your stay in Australia for up to 2 years.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met.
Explore your visa options
Once you have this visa, you can apply for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream .
If you need more time to meet the requirements of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream visa, you can apply for a second Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.
You can be granted a maximum of 2 Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visas (subclass 188) in
the Significant Investor Extension stream.
This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records .We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'.
Use the 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records