Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Entrepreneur stream
Up to 5 years
From AUD6,570.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa is valid from the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Explore your visa options.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Entrepreneur stream if certain requirements are met.
Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD6,570.00 for the primary applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must pay an extra charge. This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
There are no standard processing times available for this stream.
But your application might take longer to process if:
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
You must meet certain obligations related to your entrepreneurial activities. You must also obey Australian workplace laws.
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021
You must be undertaking or propose to undertake a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia and have a genuine intention to undertake, and continue to undertake, the complying entrepreneur activity. You must also have been nominated by a State or Territory government agency to develop your concepts.
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021
You must be undertaking or propose to undertake a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia and have a genuine intention to undertake, and continue to undertake, the complying entrepreneur activity. You must also have a legally enforceable funding agreement with a third party of at least AUD200,000. There are other eligibility requirements for this visa.
The funding party must pay your entrepreneurial entity at least 10% of the total funding. They must do this within 12 months of the day you start the entrepreneurial activity in Australia. You must use this funding in accordance with your funding agreement.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The  Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT)  can help you with:
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
First, you must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). If an Australian State or Territory government agency accepts your EOI and nominates you, we will invite you to apply for this visa.
You must be nominated by a State or Territory government agency before being invited to apply for this visa. The State or Territory government agency that nominates you must not withdraw their nomination after you apply, or we will be unable to grant you a visa.
You will not receive an invitation if you are aged 55 or older, at the time of the invitation to apply for the visa,  unless the State or Territory government agency has determined your proposed entrepreneur activity will be of exceptional economic benefit.
You must be undertaking, or proposing to undertake, a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia. You must have a genuine intention to continue this activity.
A complying entrepreneur activity must relate to an innovative idea that will lead to:
This activity must not relate to any of the following categories:
If you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021, you must be endorsed by your nominating State or Territory government agency to develop your entrepreneurial concepts.
To check your eligibility, contact:
If you were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you must have one or more legally enforceable agreements to receive funding with a total of at least AUD200,000. The funding must be from one of the following entities:
The entity that will conduct the activity (the entrepreneurial entity) must be either an individual (yourself), a company or a partnership.
At least 10% of the funding must be payable to the entrepreneurial entity within 12 months of the activity starting in Australia. This must be in the agreement.
If you are not the entreprenurial entity you must have personally held at least 30% interest in your entrepreneurial entity when you entered into the agreement.
You must also have a business plan for the entrepreneurial entity. This business plan should note how your innovative idea will lead to:
All of the funding provided or to be provided to the entrepreneurial entity under the agreement or agreements is unencumbered and lawfully acquired.
You and your partner must not have a history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.
You must have at least competent English
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia may also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We may also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must show that it has been paid back or there is an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI), be nominated by a State or Territory, and then be invited to apply.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
Your EOI tells us about your skills, qualifications and investment experience and lets us know which states and territories you would like to invest in. If you are eligible and a State or Territory government agency nominates you, we might then invite you to apply for the visa.
Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa.
Each nominator will assess your EOI using their own criteria. Learn more:
If you receive an invitation to apply for the visa after you submit your EOI, you will need to provide documents that:
You should have all these documents before you submit your EOI.
Submit your EOI via SkillSelect
You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no charge for submitting an EOI.
Select the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188).
You will need to include details such as:
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
If you are nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency, we may invite you to apply for this visa.
An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a bridging visa.
If your current visa is about to expire, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully.
You can change your EOI in SkillSelect  if
You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.
You could receive an invitation any time within 2 years of submitting your EOI. If you are invited to apply for the visa, you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Receiving an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
If you are invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. This time will not be extended.
If you do not apply for the visa after two invitations, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect
If you are not invited to apply within 2 years of submitting your EOI, your EOI will expire. We will send you an email when your EOI is about to expire.
You will need to submit a new EOI if you still want the visa.
You will not receive an invitation if you turn 55, unless the nominating State or Territory government agency has determined an exceptional economic benefit to the State or Territory in which the agency is located
You don’t have to use a migration agent to submit an EOI, if you do, you should see registered migration agent.
You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports.  If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide proof of your identity, and provide documents about your business and assets. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Give us an overview of your proposed complying entrepreneur activity in Australia.
You must be undertaking, or proposing to undertake, a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia. You must have a genuine intention to continue this activity.
A complying entrepreneur activity must relate to an innovative idea that will lead to:
This activity must not relate to any of the following categories:
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021, you must also include:
Provide proof that you have at least competent English.
Also provide proof that family members who are 18 years and older have functional English.
If you can't provide functional English documents
Family members who have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
We will advise you when to pay this.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you, provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
New step summary
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively you must provide evidence:
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Proof of dependency
You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans or photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
If you are applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter contains instructions on how to submit your application.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams.
Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information
Have all forms and documents ready before you submit your application.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
Applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in the Entrepreneur stream via ImmiAccount.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, you must make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all the documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can.
If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA expires when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry
Learn about Bridging visas
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we grant the visa.
You can add your dependent child or children to your application any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO).
You and your family members must comply with all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
You also must meet certain business obligations and comply with Australian workplace laws
You must successfully undertake activities in Australia that meet the requirements of a complying entrepreneurial activity for the duration of your subclass 188 visa. The factors that will be used to determine the success of the activities include:
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
You must comply with workplace laws when operating your business in Australia. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes
You can stay up to 5 years
To see when you must leave, use  VEVO.
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Entrepreneur stream if certain conditions are met.
This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records .
After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'.
Newborn and dependent child or children can be added to your 188 visa application before we decide on your application. However, your spouse or de-facto partner, who did not make a combined application with you at the initial lodgement of your application, can apply for the 188 visa under subsequent entrant. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
You must have a valid passport or another travel document to leave Australia and return.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records.