Subclass 820
Partner visa (temporary) (Subclass 820)
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Temporarily until your permanent Partner visa (subclass 801) application is finalised or you withdraw your application.
From AUD9,095.00 for most applicants. From AUD1,515 for Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300) holders.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, make sure you read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
With this visa you can
How long you can stay
You can stay in Australia until your permanent Partner visa (subclass 801) application is finalised or you withdraw your application.
For information on processing times for the permanent stage see Partner visa (Permanent) (subclass 801).
Include family members
You can include a dependent child in your application either when you lodge your visa application, or after you lodge your application but before we decide on your temporary visa.
Family members who apply with you must:
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement and character requirement.
For information on what to do if your child is born after you apply see You had a baby.
If you hold or have held a Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300), you can also include members of the family unit who hold or have held a Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300) at the time you apply for this visa. You cannot add these family members after you submit your subclass 820 application.
Cost
Costs for this application differ depending on your circumstances and which visa you hold. The costs below cover this Temporary visa and the Permanent Partner visa (subclass 801).
Most applicants: AUD9,095.00 for the main applicant.
Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300) holders: AUD 1,515 for the main applicant.
If you previously held a Prospective Marriage visa but didn't apply for the subclass 820 and 801 visas before that visa expired: AUD 1,920 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member that applies for the visa with you.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out how much your visa will cost, including adding additional family members, use the Visa pricing estimator.
The estimator does not take into account the costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply for this visa
You must be in Australia when you apply for this visa. Family members who apply with you must also be in Australia.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Adequate health insurance
Depending on your circumstances, you may be eligible to access Australia’s public health care system, Medicare, while you await a decision on your visa application. For more information, see Medicare
If you are not eligible for Medicare, we recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. Otherwise, you will be personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability. For more information, see Adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal health care agreement.
You can get Australian residents' private health insurance if you have an interim (blue) Medicare card or a full (green) Medicare card.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while you hold this visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Frequently asked questions
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
You might not be eligible to apply for this visa if you do not hold a substantive visa and you have had a visa cancelled or refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If you do not hold a substantive visa and are eligible to apply for this visa, you must do the following:
If this information is not included when you lodge your application, it may be deemed invalid.
Note: If you do not hold a substantive visa at the time you apply for this visa, you will have to meet additional criteria to be granted this visa.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You might not be eligible to apply if you are the holder of certain regional visas.
If you are the holder of or your last substantive visa was one of the following, you must have held that visa for at least two years before you can apply:
If you are the holder of or your last substantive visa was one of the following, you must have held that visa for at least three years before you can apply:
Eligible applicants must apply for this visa in Australia. Family members who apply with you must also be in Australia.
You can apply for this visa if your current or previous visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. You might be able to request a waiver of the no further stay condition in some circumstances. A waiver must be approved before you can apply for this visa. See No Further stay waiver.
You need to be aware of your visa status before you apply for this visa. Use VEVO to check your visa details and conditions.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You and anyone who applies for the visa with you must have a sponsor when you lodge your application and when you are on this visa.
Your sponsor is usually your partner.
We must approve your sponsor.
You cannot change your sponsor. The person who sponsors you when you apply for the visa must be same person who sponsors you for 2 years after we grant your temporary Partner visa (subclass 820).
You may still be eligible for the temporary and permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies. All information you provide is confidential. For more information, see Your relationship has changed.
You will need to be in Australia and apply for the Partner visa (subclasses 820 and 801).
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, you may still be eligible for the grant of your temporary and permanent visa. For more information, see Family Violence Provisions.
Married applicants must, in most cases, be 18 or older when they apply. This is because usually, you must be 18 or older to be married under Australian law.
Applicants in de facto relationships must be 18 or older when they apply.
If you do not hold a substantive visa at the time you apply for this visa and you did not previously hold a Prospective Marriage (subclass 300) visa, you must demonstrate that compelling reasons exist for the grant of a Partner visa.
You need to be aware of your visa status before you apply for this visa. Use VEVO to check your visa details and conditions.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must be the spouse or de facto partner of an:
This applies when you make your application and when your application is being decided.
Your relationship can be with someone of the same or different sex.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you. You can apply for consideration to be granted your temporary and permanent visa. For more information, see Domestic and family violence and your visa.
For more information see Changes in your situation.
You are a married applicant if your marriage is valid under Australian law, and:
To find out if your marriage is valid under Australian law, contact the relevant state or territory agency for births, deaths and marriages.
To be a de facto partner, you must be in a de facto relationship.
You and your partner are in a de facto relationship if:
Usually you must be in a de facto relationship for at least 12 months immediately before you apply for this visa. Time spent dating or in an online relationship might not count as being in a de facto relationship.
The 12-month requirement will not apply if you can show us compelling and compassionate circumstances exist for you to be granted the temporary Partner visa (subclass 820).
The 12-month requirement also will not apply if:
It also will not apply if:
You, any members of the family unit, or dependent children who apply for the visa with you, must meet our health requirement. Family members who do not accompany you to Australia might also need to meet our health requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you, must meet our character requirement. Family members who do not accompany you to Australia might also need to meet our character requirement.
If you or any family members owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
This may include family members who do not accompany you to Australia.
You and any family members who apply with you who are 18 years of age or older, must:
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
There are things you need to know and might need to do before you apply.
You can appoint anyone to receive correspondence on your behalf relating to your visa application.
To appoint someone to receive your correspondence, use Form 956A Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient (301KB PDF).
If you need help with your application, you can appoint someone to give you immigration assistance. A person who gives you immigration assistance can:
We treat any correspondence they send as if it came from you.
If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
To appoint someone to provide immigration assistance, use Form 956 Appointment of a registered migration agent, legal practitioner or exempt person (225KB PDF).
For more information, see who can help you with your application.
You should provide all required information with your application, or as soon as possible after you apply. Applications with all required information reduce processing delays.
You have the option to obtain your police certificates before you apply. However for immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
If more than 15 months has passed since your National Police certificate (NPC) was issued by the Australian Federal Police (AFP), new checks will be required to progress your application.
Ensure that all information you provide is accurate. As a visa applicant, you must prove your identity and provide true information with your application. For more information see Providing accurate information.
Provide a birth certificate showing the names of both parents.
If you cannot provide this, provide the identification page for one of the following:
Also provide:
You need to provide evidence of:
You need to provide evidence of your relationship with your partner. This evidence must show that:
Relationship history
Tell us in writing about:
Relationship documents
If you are married, provide your marriage certificate or other evidence that your marriage is valid in Australia.
If you are a de facto partner, you need to provide evidence of your de facto relationship.
Evidence of your de facto relationship
In addition to documents proving your relationship, show us you have been in your de facto relationship for at least 12 months before you applied for this visa.
If you haven't been with your de facto partner for 12 months, you can:
Finances
Evidence you and your partner share financial matters. Evidence can include:
Your household
Evidence you and your partner share domestic matters. Evidence can include:
Social matters
Evidence that others know about your relationship.
You must provide statements from 2 witnesses who:
Statements from witnesses can be done by completing Form 888 – Supporting statement in relation to a Partner or Prospective Marriage visa application (241KB PDF).
If the witness is an Australian citizen or permanent resident, provide evidence of this such as a passport or birth certificate.
Evidence can also include:
Commitment
Evidence you are committed to a long-term relationship with each other. Evidence must show that you:
You can also provide the terms of your wills as evidence.
If you have previously been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
For every dependent child under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
Parental responsibility documents
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either of the following:
Include:
Alternatively, you can show us one of the following:
To include your dependent child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must:
Provide:
You must also provide evidence the child is dependent on you. This includes the following:
Prospective Marriage visa holders
If you hold or have held a Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300), you can also include members of the family unit who hold or have held a Prospective Marriage visa (subclass 300) at the time you apply for this visa. You cannot add these family members after you submit your subclass 820 application.
Translate
Have all documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. On each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear enough to read.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
You must apply online and while in Australia.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
To find information for how to apply as a sponsor, click on the “Personalise this page” toggle above to view this information.
The partner visa application form will ask you for your own phone number and email address. It is important to provide your own contact details in case we need to contact you directly about your application.
Only attach a document once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Clearly label your documents.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You can attach up to 100 documents for each person on your application.
The attachment limit cannot be increased.
If you reach the attachment limit for an applicant, you can attach more documents to other clients on the application.
For more information see Applying online in ImmiAccount (homeaffairs.gov.au).
Frequently asked questions
A list of common questions and answers is available at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
We will let you know when we have received your application.
You need to have health examinations.
To organise your health examinations, see What health examinations you need.
We cannot grant you a visa unless you have a valid health assessment.
The results of your health assessment are valid for 12 months from the time you completed your examinations. If we ask you to sign a health undertaking, this will be valid for 6 months.
For more information on health requirements, see Health.
Prospective Marriage (subclass 300) visa holders
If you had health examinations for your subclass 300 visa, you might not need to have them again. We will let you know if you need them.
If you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years (since you turned 16), you must provide an Australian police certificate.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
To get an Australian police certificate see National Police Checks.
Also provide:
For immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
To get an overseas police certificate, see Offices and locations.
Complete and attach to your application Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment (596KB PDF).
To help ensure your application is processed as quickly as possible, attach all necessary supporting documents to your application. The checklist provided on ImmiAccount will help make sure you include all required documents in your application.
If your application is within standard processing times, do not contact us. We cannot provide any further updates on your application's progress. You can see if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount.
To see standard processing times for this visa see Global processing times.
A list of common questions and answers is available at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
You can travel outside Australia and return if your current visa lets you.
If you hold a bridging visa see Travel on a bridging visa (homeaffairs.gov.au)
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
You do not need to provide biometrics for this visa.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them in ImmiAccount as soon as you can.
We might ask you to provide more information.
For more information on attaching documents in ImmiAccount see Applying online in ImmiAccount
If you are unable to upload the relevant documents to your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You can add a dependent child to your application before we decide on your visa. Your child must be in Australia.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and attach it to your ImmiAccount.
After you have attached the form, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Newborn children
If you have a baby, you will need to let us know. For more information, see You had a baby.
After you have updated us in ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Tell us if things change after you apply but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
For more information, see Change in your situation.
If you are unable to upload the relevant documents to your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Depending on your situation you may need to complete the Notification of Relationship Cessation form in ImmiAccount. To confirm, check Your relationship has changed.
If you do not have access to ImmiAccount, you can notify us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You may still be eligible for a temporary and permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies. All information you provide is confidential.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you. You may still be eligible for the grant of your temporary and permanent visa. For more information, see Family Violence Provisions.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you held a valid substantive visa when you applied for your partner visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Let us know as soon as you can if you have made a mistake on your application.
For more information see After you apply
If you are unable to update your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your temporary visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You can stay until your permanent Partner visa (subclass 801) application is finalised or you withdraw your application.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Use VEVO to check visa details and conditions.
You can travel outside and return to Australia as many times as you want.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted a 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will override your temporary Partner visa. This means you will not be eligible for the permanent Partner visa (subclass 801).
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Australian visas are digital. We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
Your digital visa record is also used by:
With this visa you will have full work rights and are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
With this visa you will be able to study in Australia. However you will not receive any government support and any study costs will be at your own expense.
You might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived residents' waiting periods from Services Australia.
You cannot add family members to your visa application after we grant the Partner visa (Temporary) (subclass 820).
To include a dependent child in your permanent visa application after we have granted you a subclass 820 visa, but before we have finalised your permanent Partner visa (subclass 801), your child must first apply for a Dependent child visa (subclass 445).
Once your child holds a Dependent child visa (subclass 445), you can include them in your permanent Partner visa application. Your child must be in Australia.
Complete and attach to your application in ImmiAccount Form 1002 - Application by a subclass 445 dependent child for a permanent partner visa (279KB PDF).
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
If you have a baby after you have been granted this visa, you need to let us know. For more information see You had a baby.
Tell us if things change. Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if there is a change in your situation.
If you do not have access to ImmiAccount you can let us know by us completing the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Depending on your situation you may need to complete the Notification of Relationship Cessation form in ImmiAccount. To confirm, check Your relationship has changed.
If you do not have access to ImmiAccount, you can notify us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You may still be eligible for the permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies. All information you provide is confidential.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you. You may still be eligible for the grant of your permanent visa. For more information, see Family Violence Provisions.
To get the permanent Partner visa (subclass 801), you must hold this subclass 820 visa or the Dependent child visa (subclass 445). If you are granted any other visa, you will no longer be eligible for the grant of the permanent Partner visa (subclass 801).
You are eligible for consideration of a permanent Partner visa two years after you first applied the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
When we assess you for the permanent visa, you will need provide additional documents.
For more information see Partner visa (subclass 801).