(Subclass 151)
Former Resident visa (Subclass 151)
Permanently
From AUD4,665.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa you can
How long you can stay
This permanent visa allows you to stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day you get the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,665.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance.
If you apply in Australia, we can't grant you the visa if you are outside Australia when we make our decision.
If you apply outside Australia, we can't grant you the visa if you are in Australia when we make our decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity expires:
Note:
For more information on RRV, see: Resident Return visa (RRV). To see when your travel period ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be able to show us that you meet all these criteria:
You must be able to show us that you meet one of these conditions:
To meet the long residence requirement, you must be younger than 45 at the time of application.
There is no age requirement for the defence services requirement.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and any family members aged 16 years or over must meet our character requirement.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our character requirement.
You might be asked to provide an Assurance of support
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused, see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You might need to get health examinations. If you need help with your application, get someone to act on your behalf.
If you need a new passport, plan to get it before you apply for this visa.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather documents to prove your identity and show you meet our requirements.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Evidence of your ties with Australia and that you have kept these ties while you have been living overseas, such as:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your:
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you to. Learn more about police certificates.
If anyone included in the application has served in the armed forces of any country, provide certified copies of their military service record or discharge papers.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant aged 18 years or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Usually, your child or stepchild must be under 23 years old to be included in your application.

However, a dependant older than 23 years can be included if they are unable to earn a living to support themselves due to physical or cognitive limitations. In this case, provide information about the physical or cognitive limitation.
Hide
Evidence of service with the Australian Defence Forces before 1981 (if applicable).
Identity documents
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your:
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
To nominate someone to:
Send written notification or your forms with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
When you apply on paper you must provide certified copies  of your documents.
This includes:
If you are emailing us documents after you apply, the documents do not need to be certified. Use a good quality photograph or scan.
Keep a full copy of your completed application including all supporting documents. Keep a full copy of your completed application including all supporting documents.
Send us:
You must apply on paper. You can't lodge this application in person or online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa, but not in immigration clearance.
All applicants apply together on the one Form 47SV Application for special migration to Australia (581KB PDF) and lodge it with our Sydney office.
Pay the application charge before you send your application. Pay online in ImmiAccount.
You can't lodge this application in person or online.
We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge. We will let you know if you have paid an incorrect charge.
Mail the form and supporting documents to:
Subclass 151 Visa Application
Department of Home Affairs
GPO Box 9984
Sydney NSW 2001
AUSTRALIA
If any of the above steps are incomplete, your application may be invalid. We do not process invalid applications. We will notify you if this is the case, and if requested, return your application.
Do not send original documents with your application, only send certified copies. Keep a copy of your completed application for your own records, including any supporting documents.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
If you applied in Australia, tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. We need to know because we can't grant you the visa if you are outside of Australia.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you applied outside Australia, do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa. We can't grant you the visa if you are in Australia.
We will let you know when you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
Send the documents to the office where you sent the application.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you held a substantive visa when you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add members of the family unit to your application before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF), and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers. (168KB PDF)
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Send written notification or your forms to the office your submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
If you apply in Australia, we can't grant the visa if you are outside Australia when we make our decision.
If you apply outside Australia, we can't grant the visa if you are in Australia when we make our decision.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO).
You must obey all Australian laws.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity expires:
Note:
For more information on RRV, see: Resident Return visa (RRV). To see when your travel period ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. The subclass 444 visa is not a permanent visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might affect your eligibility for Resident Return visa and Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
You have rights under Australian workplace law.
The  Fair Work Ombudsman's Pay and Conditions Tool  (PACT) has information on pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Your visa is linked to your passport. You need to tell us if you get a new passport.
See how to tell us if your situation changes.