Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189)
Points-tested stream
Permanently
From AUD4,765.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,765.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,885.00.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive or a subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be processed.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If you are in Australia at the time you apply, you must hold one of the following:
If you currently hold, or your last substantive visa held was either:
You must have held that visa for at least 3 years at the time you apply.
You can only apply for this visa if we invite you to. See before you apply.
Submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you would like to apply for the visa.
After you have submitted an EOI, you will be ranked against other intending applicants and might be invited to apply for the visa.
Invitations are issued regularly through SkillSelect.
For your application to be valid, you must declare that you have a suitable skills assessment at the time of invitation.
Delegates of the Minister will now accept a suitable skills assessment for an applicant’s nominated skilled occupation which has been obtained within the 60 day invitation period.
This change of approach is made as a result of the decision of Thapa v Minister for Immigration, Citizenship, Migrant Services and Multicultural Affairs [2021] FCCA 686 (Thapa). The Minister will administer the Migration Regulations 1994 in accordance with the decision in Thapa, but the Minister reserves the right to make submissions in a Court that Thapa was wrongly decided.
You will need to provide a copy of this skills assessment with your application.
For medical and legal practitioners, we also accept the following as proof of a skills assessment:
Your skills assessment must have been obtained in the 3 years before the date of your invitation. If the assessment was for a shorter period, that period must not have passed.
If your skills were assessed on the basis of a qualification you got in Australia when you held a student visa, the qualification must be from studying a course registered on CRICOS.
You must be aged under 45 when we invite you to apply for the visa.
You can still apply for the visa if you turn 45 after we invite you to apply.
If you turn 45 after you submit your EOI but before we invite you to apply, you will not be invited to apply.
This is a points-tested visa.
When you submit your EOI in SkillSelect you will be given an indicative points score based on the claims you have made. If you do not obtain a score of 65 points you will not be invited to apply for this visa.
If we do invite you to apply for the visa, your invitation will state the number of points that you must score when we assess your application for grant of the visa (this score may be higher than 65 points, depending on your claims in the EOI).
When you lodge your application you must provide evidence supporting your claims.
To calculate how many points you may score use the points calculator.
At the time of invitation, you must have at least competent English.
Your occupation must be on the relevant list of eligible skilled occupations for the Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189) Point-Tested stream.
You and any family who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If requested, family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) through SkillSelect to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
We prefer that you have any health checks before you apply for the visa.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
Your occupation must be on the relevant list of eligible skilled occupations for the Skilled Independent visa  (subclass 189).
You must have a suitable skills assessment at the time we invite you to apply.
The assessment must be undertaken by an assessing authority listed against your occupation in the list of eligible skilled occupations. You might have to pay for the assessment.
To be eligible for a visa your skills assessment must have been obtained within the 3 years before the date of invitation. If the assessment was for a shorter period, that period must not have passed.  We can't accept a skills assessment issued more than 3 years before the invitation date.
If your skills were assessed on the basis of a qualification you got in Australia when you held a student visa, the qualification must be from studying a course registered on CRICOS.
For medical practitioners we accept evidence of registration issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency. You must hold either:
You must show that you hold this registration at the time we invite you to apply.
A suitable skills assessment for barristers and solicitors is evidence of admission to practice as a lawyer in an Australian state or territory.
The relevant legal admissions authority must have admitted you to practice at the time we invite you to apply.
You must be able to obtain at least 65 points on our points test to be eligible for this visa. If you cannot obtain 65 points we will not invite you to apply.
If we invite you to apply for the visa, you must prove the claims you make in your EOI when we assess your application.
Use the points calculator to check how many points you might score
Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa.
If we invite you to apply for the visa, you will have to prove the claims you make in your EOI. You will also need to show you meet the other eligibility criteria.
See what documents you will need to prove your claims before you submit your EOI in the Gather documents section.
Submit your EOI through SkillSelect. You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no fee for submitting an EOI.
Select the Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189).
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
SkillSelect will estimate your points score based on the claims made in your EOI.
You must have an estimated score of at least 65 points to be invited to apply for this visa.
If you score enough points and there are places allocated for your occupation, we might invite you to apply.
An EOI is not a visa application. This means you are not able to get a bridging visa because you have submitted an EOI.
If you are in Australia and your current visa is about to expire, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully. We will not process your visa application if you do not hold a substantive visa or a Bridging Visa A, Bridging Visa B or a Bridging Visa C when you apply for the visa.
Let us know through SkillSelect if:
You must be able to meet the points score on your invitation letter if we invite you to apply.
SkillSelect will update your indicative points score when you make changes to your EOI. You can change your EOI at any time before we invite you to apply for a visa.
We will invite you to apply for the visa if:
We allocate places for the skilled migration program to meet the Australian Government’s migration planning levels.
Once invited you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. We can't extend this time.
You could receive an invitation up to 2 years after submitting an EOI. If we invite you to apply you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Getting an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
The invitation will include an indicative points score based on your EOI claims. When you apply for the visa, you must show that you can:
We will only invite you to apply for the visa twice. If you don’t apply after the second invitation, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect.
We will not process your visa application if you are 45 at the time of your invitation.
If you can't show you meet the indicative points score on your invitation or other visa eligibility criteria, don't apply for the visa.
Your EOI will be frozen if an invitation is issued, but you can update information once the 60-day invitation period has passed. You can also submit another EOI.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide documents to support the claims you make in your EOI and show you meet the other eligibility criteria
Provide accurate information. See what happens you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as marriage certificates, divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof you have at least competent English at time of invitation for this visa.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
You don't have to provide any documents to prove functional English if your partner is a citizen of and holds a valid passport from:
Otherwise, provide proof your partner has functional English.
If you can't show us your partner has functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
You don't have to prove that your dependant under 18 years of age has functional English.
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
You don't have to provide any documents to prove functional English if your dependant is a citizen of and holds a valid passport from:
Otherwise, provide proof your dependant has functional English.
If you can't show us your dependant has functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
You must provide documents that support the claims you made in your EOI. Use the points table to check the documents you need. Depending on your claims this could include evidence of your:
Delegates of the Minister will now accept a suitable skills assessment for an applicant’s nominated skilled occupation which has been obtained within the 60 day invitation period.
This change of approach is made as a result of the decision of Thapa v Minister for Immigration, Citizenship, Migrant Services and Multicultural Affairs [2021] FCCA 686 (Thapa). The Minister will administer the Migration Regulations 1994 in accordance with the decision in Thapa, but the Minister reserves the right to make submissions in a Court that Thapa was wrongly decided.
One of these certificates issued by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency:
You must be registered at the time we invite you to apply.
Proof of admission to practice as a lawyer in the relevant state or territory. This could be your Australian legal Admission Certificate or Practising Certificate from the relevant legal admission authority for your State/Territory. You must be admitted to practice at the time we invite you to apply.
You must provide documents to support all of the claims made in your EOI.  Use the points table to check the documents you need.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file
When you have your invitation you can apply online. You can be in or outside Australia.
You have 60 days from the date of your invitation to apply for the visa.
Provide accurate information. See what may happen if you can't  prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If you are granted a bridging visa you will receive notification of your visa grant.
We don’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure your visa allows you to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you applied outside Australia, don't arrange travel to Australia, leave your job or sell your home until we advise you in writing that you have been granted the visa.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
Make sure you stay lawful in Australia by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, pay it when we send you the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF), pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia do have to meet our character requirement and might have to meet our health requirement.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but not in immigration clearance. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, you must enter Australia before a date that we specify on your visa grant letter.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
You and your family members must obey Australian laws.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
Check the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.