Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888)
Business Innovation stream
Permanently
From AUD3,400.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,400.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must also pay an extra charge. This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
You only need to pay it for family members who did not pay the second instalment charge for their Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application may take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
If you are outside Australia when we grant the visa:
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
You must be the primary holder of one of the following:
You can also apply if you are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa in the Business Innovation stream or Business Innovation Extension stream.
If your spouse or de facto partner who is the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa on or after 1 July 2021, you must have held your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa for at least 3 years.
Arrangements were in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you were able to apply for this visa if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Business Innovation stream or Business Innovation Extension stream which expired during the concession period.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you were able to apply for this visa if you were the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and:
For more information on the concession period, visit COVID-19 concession period.
You must have a current nomination from a state or territory government agency.
When you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa, you gave us an expression of interest. A state or territory saw your expression of interest and nominated you.
You do not need to provide a new Expression of Interest. But the state or territory needs to confirm that your nomination is still current.
For the 2 years immediately before you apply, you must have:
For the 24 months immediately before you apply, you must own at least:
If you bought your main business (or businesses) from a person who applied for or held:
at the time of the acquisition, you must show that you and that person co-owned the business for at least 1 year before you apply.
Your main business or businesses (or the business or businesses of your spouse or de facto partner, or of you and your spouse or de facto partner together), had an annual turnover of at least AUD300,000 in the 12 months immediately before the application was made.
You might not need to have a turnover of AUD300,000 if the nominating State or Territory government agency has determined that there are exceptional circumstances.
For the 12 months immediately before you apply, you or your partner (or you and your partner together) must show at least 2 of the following:
If you want to meet the employee rule, your employees must work in your main business (or main businesses) and:
You might not need to meet the assets and employees requirement if the nominating State or Territory government agency has determined that there are exceptional circumstances
When operating your business in Australia, you and your partner must have followed:
This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations.
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application, who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application must have functional English. If you cannot show evidence of functional English, we will ask you to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
They will not need to pay a second instalment if they have already paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
You must meet one of the residence requirements below.
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, you must have been physically present in Australia for at least 1 year in the 2 years immediately before you apply if you are the holder of a:
You must have been physically present in Australia for at least 1 year in the 3 years immediately before you apply if you are the holder of a:
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, if you applied for this visa and are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa in the Business Innovation stream or Business Innovation Extension stream you must have been physically resident in Australia for at least:
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you were outside Australia during the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, time spent overseas will count as time being in Australia if you were the holder of one of the following visas either as a primary of secondary via holder during the 'COVID-19 concession period:
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’ you can apply for this visa if you:
Your first Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream must have been granted on or before 30 June 2019.
You and your partner must not have been involved in any business or investment activities that are unacceptable in Australia.
You must have a realistic commitment to continuing your business and investment activities in Australia.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia must also meet our character requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time when the application is decided, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, you must be the primary holder of a:
You can also apply if you are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream or Business Innovation Extension stream. If your spouse or de facto partner who is the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021, you must have held their visa for at least 3 years.
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can also apply for this visa if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Business Innovation stream or Business Innovation Extension stream which expired during the concession period.
From 1 Februaryr 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can also apply for this visa if you were the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and:
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents to be granted this visa.
You do not need to provide a new Expression of Interest. But the state or territory needs to confirm that your nomination is still current.
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You must give us documents proving your identity and about your business or investment activity. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents, or a statutory declaration if anyone in your application has been:
Also provide marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone applying for a visa in your application.
You need to have a current nomination from a state or territory government agency.
Fill out  Form 1414 Nomination - Business Skills class. Then:
Provide:
Show us you have followed Australian laws when operating your business. This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations. Provide:
Prove to us that you have owned your main business or main businesses for the 2 years before you apply.
Whether you have 1 or 2 businesses, you must own at least:
Evidence can include:
Agreements must include all pages and related schedules and evidence you paid stamp duty.
Documents about shares should show:
If you bought your business from a person who holds, or applied for:
You must provide evidence that you held joint ownership interest in the business with that person for at least 1 year immediately before applying.
Provide evidence that you have participated in the day-to-day management of the business for the 2 years before you apply. Evidence can include:
Your evidence must show continuous involvement in significant aspects of:
Provide a 1-page organisational chart for each of your nominated businesses that covers the 2 years before you apply. The chart must show:
Also provide:
For the 2 years before you apply, provide:
Supporting documents can include your most recent business taxation returns.
Also provide extracts from financial statements for each business, including balance sheet, profit and loss statement and notes to the accounts. Make sure:
For the 12 months immediately before applying, show us that your business had:
Evidence of employees should include:
Also prove to us that those employees are Australian citizens, permanent residents or New Zealand passport holders. Evidence can include:
You must provide documents to show your (or you and your partner’s) business and personal assets in Australia.
For the beginning and end of 12-month period ending no more than 3 months before you apply, provide:
The 12-month period must be the same period covered by your financial statements.
Liabilities can include mortgages, credit cards, and loans (including unsecured and third party loans).
Here are the forms of evidence we need for each type of asset:
Provide bank statements or term deposit certificates covering the 2 years before you apply. All bank statements must be able to identify the balances held at the beginning and end of the 12 month period covered by your business's financial statements.
Provide:
We do not accept valuations by real estate agents who are not accredited property valuers.
Provide evidence of business ownership and value. You can refer us to evidence you provided for 'Business ownership' above, if applicable.
Provide:
If the loan is to or from a business, provide loan statements listed in the business balance sheet.
Provide evidence of the stocks or bonds you hold and their value at the beginning and end of the 12 month period covered by your business's financial statements. Evidence can include:
Provide the trust deeds.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and all applicants aged 16 years and older, provide:
All applicants aged 18 years and older, who did not pay the second instalment of the visa application charge at provisional stage, must provide evidence they have at least functional English.
We will ask all applicants to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge if they:
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
If your partner holds a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa application as your dependent partner, we do not need evidence of your relationship.
If you are including a partner who does not hold a subclass 188 visa as your dependant,  we need to see evidence of your partner's relationship with you along with identity and character documents and documents about other relationships.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds a Subclass 188 - Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence in relation to the second dot point above.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply online in ImmiAccount.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, you must make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
Health examination results are generally valid for 12 months. If your previous health clearance for subclass 188 visa is more than 12 months old, you will need to undertake new health examinations.
Do not undertake new health examinations until we ask you to.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as your can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA ceases when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visa A
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa application, we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
We expect you to continue to undertake business and investment activities in Australia, following the intentions you outlined in your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.
You can't add a family member to your application after we have granted the visa.
If a member of your family wants to join you later in Australia, they must apply for a separate visa that suits their situation. See their visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your Resident Return visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.