Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191)
Regional Provisional stream
Permanently
From AUD490.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis. Actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances. These include:
See all conditions
Apply
With this visa you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant. If you wish to travel after this date, you must apply for a Resident Return visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa if you are in Australia.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
Generally, family members included in your application do not need an eligible visa. Family members must hold an eligible visa if:
Their eligible visa must have been granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit. This provision applies, for example, if you want to include a child in your application who has turned 23 years of age since getting an eligible visa.
Family members included in your application must meet health and character requirements. Family members not coming to Australia may also need to meet health and character requirements.
If you have a child who was born in Australia since you were granted your current visa you must tell us about your child before you lodge this application. Find out what to do if your child is born after we granted your current visa. If we have not linked your child’s current visa to their passport you will be unable to lodge their application online.
Cost
The visa costs AUD490.00 for the main applicant.
The visa costs AUD245.00 for each additional applicant who is at least 18.
The visa costs AUD125.00 for each additional applicant who is less than 18.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. You cannot be in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis. Actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
You must hold an eligible visa when you apply. You must have held that visa for at least 3 years before you apply.
An eligible visa is a subclass 491 or subclass 494 visa.
There is no minimum income requirement.
You must provide notices of assessment issued by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for three income years out of the five years of your eligible visa.
You must have complied with the conditions of your eligible visa when in Australia. This requirement applies for the whole period you hold the visa(s).
You must meet our health requirement. This also applies for any family members who apply for the visa with you. Family members not coming to Australia may also need to meet the health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement. This also applies for family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you.
Other family members not coming to Australia also need to meet the character requirement.
If you are 16 years of age or older, you must:
sign an Australian Values Statement. This confirms you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must pay it back. They can also make an arrangement to pay it back. This includes those who do not apply for the visa with you.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Before applying you must gather and prepare your documents.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You and your all family members must have valid passports or travel documents to be able to submit an application for this visa.
You will need to provide identity, character and other documents that show you have complied with your visa conditions in Australia. You will also need to provide documents for your partner and any dependent children.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You must provide proof that, as the holder of your eligible visa, you lived, worked and studied in a designated area of Australia.
Proof of residence can include but is not limited to:
Proof of work can include but is not limited to:
Proof of study can include but is not limited to:
There is no minimum income requirement.
You must provide notices of assessment issued by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for three income years out of the five years of your eligible visa.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as marriage certificates, divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationships, provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit.
Provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited but on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
You can apply for this visa online. You can be inside or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If you are granted a bridging visa you will receive notification of your visa grant.
We do not give updates on applications under assessment.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and we may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
You can apply for this visa in or out of Australia.
If you apply for the visa in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you apply for the visa in Australia, you may be granted a bridging visa (BV). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BV will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the BV while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 - Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF), pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia do have to meet our character requirement and might have to meet our health requirement.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be inside or outside Australia when we decide your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
When you have this visa you can:
You and your family members must obey Australian laws.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After the initial 5 years, to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157).
To see when the 5 years ends, use check your visa details with VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain amount of time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we granted the visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
Check the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia, you can request a copy of your international movement records.