Subclass 851
Resolution of Status (Subclass 851)
Permanently
Nil
Processing times for this visa are unavailable.
See all conditions
Note: Persons with any concerns regarding their eligibility to apply for a RoS visa can contact specialist community legal service providers (listed in the Factsheet). They can also contact the Department’s Status Resolution Service for assistance.
Apply
Overview
The Australian Government has fulfilled its election commitment to make Temporary Protection visa (TPV) and Safe Haven Enterprise visa (SHEV) holders eligible to apply for a permanent Resolution of Status (RoS) visa.
Providing permanent residence to TPV and SHEV holders empowers them to move forward with their lives. Permanent residency will enable TPV/SHEV holders to:
Anyone who has submitted a TPV or SHEV application before 14 February 2023 that has not been finally determined, has had the existing application automatically converted to a RoS visa application. This includes subsequent TPV or SHEV applications.
Current TPV and SHEV holders who had not submitted a subsequent TPV or SHEV application before 14 February 2023 can apply for a RoS visa online via ImmiAccount. They must apply before their current TPV or SHEV ceases to remain lawful.
We are committed to supporting the transition to a Resolution of Status visa for those who held or have applied for a TPV or SHEV before 14 February 2023. The Department continues to actively process all RoS visa applications.
If you have any concerns about your eligibility to apply for a RoS visa, you can contact specialist community legal service providers (listed in the Factsheet below). If you need assistance, you can also contact the Department’s Status Resolution Service for assistance.
With this visa, you can:
Requirements
All applicants need to meet health, character and security requirements. Any applicants aged 18 or over must sign the Australian Values Statement.
You may be asked to provide additional identity information, or to clarify information in relation to your identity. In some cases this may require an interview. The Department will contact you if additional information is required.
Converted TPV or SHEV applications
If you applied for an initial TPV or SHEV before 14 February 2023 you do not need to apply for a RoS visa. If we find that you meet the criteria for the TPV or SHEV, the Department will convert your application to an application for a RoS visa. The Department will notify you if you have been granted a RoS visa.
You do not need to apply for a RoS visa if you hold a TPV or SHEV and have applied for a subsequent TPV or SHEV before 14 February 2023. The Department has converted your application to an application for a RoS visa. The Department will notify you if we have granted you a RoS visa.
Current TPV and SHEV holders (with no application before the Department)
Current TPV and SHEV holders who had not submitted a subsequent TPV or SHEV application before 14 February 2023 can apply for a RoS visa. You must apply before your current TPV or SHEV ceases to remain lawful.
You must apply for a RoS visa online via ImmiAccount.
Online applications for a RoS visa include the notification of an application bar lift (as unauthorised maritime arrivals are otherwise subject to the application bar in section 46A of the Migration Act 1958).
For assistance with ImmiAccount technical issues see Technical help. If you are still unable to lodge your application you can contact our Global Service Centre, or the legal service provider in your state or territory for free assistance. For a list of providers see the RoS visa factsheet (200KB PDF).
There are limited circumstances where we will authorise applicants to lodge a RoS visa application using the paper application form (including verified ImmiAccount systems issues).
Extending your TPV or SHEV
We will extend the TPV/SHEV of current TPV or SHEV holders who make a valid application for a RoS visa until we have made a decision on the RoS visa. To ensure that your TPV or SHEV is extended and that you remain lawful, you must apply for a RoS visa before your TPV or SHEV ceases.
If you are currently unlawful
If you are currently an unlawful non-citizen because your TPV or SHEV expired before 14 February 2023, note that an application for a RoS visa is also an application for a bridging visa.
For current TPV or SHEV holders, you must apply for a RoS visa before your TPV or SHEV ceases.
How long can you stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become an Australian permanent resident on the day we grant your visa.
For Australian citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant your visa.
Including family members
Family members may apply together on the same application form. Each applicant must meet the requirements in their own right for the grant of the visa.
If a child is born after you submit your application and before we make a decision on your application, we will include the child in that application. You must tell us as soon as possible by completing Form 1022 Notification of change of circumstances (172KB PDF). You must also provide a clear colour copy of the child's original birth certificate, and attach both of these documents in ImmiAccount or send them via email to the address provided in your RoS visa or subsequent TPV or SHEV application acknowledgement letter.
If a child is born in Australia, they are automatically granted the same visa their parents hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child will be an Australian citizen by birth. In such cases an Australian citizenship certificate should be obtained and attached in ImmiAccount. For more details see: Get a citizenship certificate.
Cost
There is no cost.
Apply from
You must be in Australia when you apply for the visa.
Processing times
The Department continues to actively process all RoS visa applications.
Some cases are more complex than others and the department may need to request additional information from applicants, including in relation to identity. It is important that applicants cooperate with this process to allow applications to be processed as quickly as possible.
Information regarding the processing of the RoS visa caseload is available in the Unauthorised Maritime Arrival legacy caseload reports available at Humanitarian program statistics.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Travel
There are no travel restrictions on the Resolution of Status visa.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. To re-enter Australia after 5 years you will need a Resident Return visa (RRV).
If you want to travel outside Australia after we grant the visa and you do not have a current passport, you should first contact any Australian Passport Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to apply for a travel document.
Fact sheet
A fact sheet with useful information about the Resolution of Status visa process is available below in the following languages:
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your travel document or ImmiCard. You will not get a label in your travel document.
The Government remains committed to Operation Sovereign Borders. Australia’s border protection policies have not and will not change. Any person who attempts to travel to Australia irregularly will not settle permanently here.
Anyone who attempts to travel to Australia by voyage without a valid visa will be turned back to their point of departure, returned to their home country or transferred to another country.
Australia's tough border protection policies are designed to protect Australia's borders, combat people smuggling and deter people from attempting dangerous boat voyages across the open ocean.
The Government’s policy on transitory persons remains unchanged. Transitory persons will not settle in Australia. We encourage them to engage in third country migration options including:
To make a valid application for a Resolution of Status visa, you must be a holder (or former holder, and your visa was not cancelled) of one of the below visas:
From 14 February 2023, TPV and SHEV holders who held their TPV or SHEV before this date are eligible to apply for a RoS visa. You can apply online via ImmiAccount.
People who have submitted a TPV or SHEV application prior to 14 February 2023 that has not been finally determined, will have their existing application automatically converted to a RoS visa application. This includes any subsequent TPV or SHEV application.
If you currently hold a bridging visa and you made a valid application for a TPV or SHEV before 14 February 2023, the Department will convert your TPV or SHEV application to a Resolution of Status visa application. You must satisfy the requirements for the grant of a TPV or SHEV.
You cannot make a valid RoS visa application while you are subject to an application bar. This includes the section 46A bar for Unauthorised Maritime Arrivals.
The online application form for a RoS visa includes the notification of a section 46A application bar lift. You must make your application online via ImmiAccount, unless the Department has authorised you to lodge a paper application form and notified you in writing of an application bar lift.
There are limited circumstances where we will authorise applicants to lodge a RoS visa application using the paper application form (including verified ImmiAccount systems issues). If you are experiencing difficulties lodging online, you should refer to the Technical help. You may also contact the legal service provider in your state or territory for free assistance. For a list of providers see the RoS visa factsheet (200KB PDF).
If we cancelled your most recent TPV or SHEV, or your TPV or SHEV application was refused and finally determined, you cannot make a valid application for a Resolution of Status visa.
We expect that people found not to engage protection obligations and, whose application has been finally determined by any merits and judicial review processes, will depart Australia. We may provide these people assistance to depart.
If you have new, credible protection claims relating to changes in your country of origin or personal circumstances, you may request Ministerial Intervention.
The Minister will not consider protection claims that have already been considered in a Protection visa application or by the Tribunal. Requests will only be considered where a person is making genuine and compelling claims that require consideration when these claims could not be raised in their initial protection visa application. If the Minister does not intervene in your case, the Minister expects you to leave Australia when your current visa expires.
You may be asked to provide documents as evidence of your identity, nationality or citizenship to support your application.
We may also ask you to provide biometrics (a scan of your fingerprints and a digital photograph of your face) as part of your application, if you have not provided them to us before.
If you are invited to provide identity information and you do not provide this within the timeframe provided, you will be provided with an opportunity to explain why you could not provide the information, and the steps that you took to obtain the information. If you do not make a genuine attempt to establish your identity, the department may consider refusing your application.
If the department requests identity information from you and, following your response, has substantial concerns with a previous finding in relation to your identity, we will assess whether you meet at least one of the following criteria before granting your visa:
As part of the application process, we will assess whether you meet Australia’s security requirements for the grant of a Resolution of Status visa.
You may need to undergo health examinations. This will protect your health and the health of the Australian community. We may waive the health requirements if you have already satisfied the health requirements for the grant of a TPV or SHEV.
These examinations will be conducted by Bupa Medical Visa Services.
after you have lodged your visa application if required, we will give you a health identifier (HAP ID) and information about how to arrange your health examinations.
You must meet certain character requirements.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must have read, or had explained to you, the booklet, Life in Australia.
You must also confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you sign or accept the Australian Values Statement.
Check that you are eligible and check when your current TPV or SHEV ceases. You can prepare and submit your application yourself or, if you need help, you can get someone to act on your behalf. You should start this process well before your TPV or SHEV ceases. If you do not apply before your current visa ceases you will become unlawful and may lose access to Government services.
For more information see Eligibility.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be one of the following:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter. For more information see Receiving Documents.
You can get free legal assistance to apply for a RoS visa.
While not mandatory, we encourage TPV/SHEV holders who are applying for a RoS visa to contact the specialist legal service provider in their state for free support.
State / Territory
Service Provider
Website
Australian Capital Territory (ACT)
Legal Aid ACT
www.legalaidact.org.au
New South Wales (NSW)
Refugee Advice and Casework Service (RACS)
Immigration Advice and Rights Centre (IARC) on referral from RACS NSW
www.racs.org.au
www.iarc.gov.au
Northern Territory (NT)
Northern Territory Legal Aid Commission
www.legalaid.nt.gov.au
Queensland (QLD)
Refugee and Immigration Legal Service (RAILS)
www.rails.org.au
South Australia (SA)
Legal Services Commission of SA
www.lsc.sa.gov.au
Tasmania (TAS)
Tasmanian Refugee Legal Service
www.trls.org.au
Victoria (VIC)
Refugee Legal
www.refugeelegal.org.au
Western Australia (WA)
Circle Green Community Legal
www.circlegreen.org.au
There is no visa application charge for the RoS visa. If you are using the services of a migration agent, ensure they are registered with the Office of Migration Agents Regulatory Authority (OMARA). Only registered migration agents and legal practitioners can charge for immigration assistance.
Note: The Department of Home Affairs does not charge a fee to fast-track a visa. If you get offered this service, it is a scam.
You need to provide documents to support your application for this visa. In many cases, we can make a decision using the information you provide when you lodge your application. In some cases, we may request additional information (for example, in relation to your identity).
It is in your interest to provide as much information as possible in your application and that your application is truthful and complete. We can make a decision using only the information you provide when you submit your application.
Where the department has invited you to provide further information concerning your identity you must provide original and translated documents of your identity, nationality and citizenship.
Such as:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
These documents are to be attached in ImmiAccount.
If you cannot provide these documents, you will be provided with the opportunity to explain why and demonstrate the reasonable steps you have taken to obtain the requested information. If you do not provide this information, or you provide a bogus document or false or misleading information in relation to your identity your application may be refused.
It is not necessary for you to provide us with the claims, information or documents you already provided as part of your previous TPV or SHEV application. Therefore, you do not need to ask for copies of these documents from us.
If you still want to access your documents held by us, you can request them under the Privacy Act 1988.
If requested by the Department, you must be prepared to provide a police certificate from each country you have lived in for 12 months or more during the past 10 years after you turned 16 years of age. You do not need to do this if you have provided this information with your TPV or SHEV application.
Do not arrange for police certificates until we ask you to.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or forms. To upload documents see ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Scan or photograph all relevant identity documents including any passports (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Ensure that you save photos under the name of the person in the photo. Clearly label all other files in English.
Learn more about accepted document size and formats.
Attach:
Learn more about attaching documents.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
If your migration agent completes your application form, you must read and understand all the information included in the form before signing it. This also includes signing any statutory declaration you make.
The form asks for basic information about you and any other applicant on the form (including name, address, date of birth and contact details). It also asks some questions in relation to character and travel history. It is important that you complete the form in full, including completing the Australian Values Statement and declaration.
RoS visa applications should be lodged online through ImmiAccount. There are a number of benefits to lodging online. You can:
To apply online, follow these steps:
The online form will guide you to answer the questions we need from you. It has helpful information included if you need support.
When you finish your online application, you will come to a page that will prompt you to attach documents. You can save your application at any page and go back to it when you are ready.
Once you have submitted your application online, you can check the status of your application through ImmiAccount.
If you have difficulties lodging your application online, the ImmiAccount front page provides information about planned and unplanned system outages. You may need to return to ImmiAccount at a later time to complete your application, but you must apply before your current visa ceases. You can find help and support for technical issues with ImmiAccount at technical help.
If you still have difficulties lodging your application online, you may seek support from one of the specialist legal service providers available to provide free assistance to RoS applicants. For a list of providers see the RoS visa factsheet (200KB PDF). You can also contact our Global Service Centre on 131 881.
If you can't submit your application for a Resolution of Status visa online due to a verified system issue with ImmiAccount, the Department may authorise you to submit a paper application.
If you have difficulties lodging your application online, the ImmiAccount front page provides information about planned and unplanned system outages. You may need to return to ImmiAccount at a later time to complete your application, but you must apply before your current visa ceases. You can find help and support for technical issues with ImmiAccount at technical help.
If you still have difficulties lodging your application online, you may seek support from one of the specialist legal service providers available to provide free assistance to RoS applicants. For a list of providers see the RoS visa factsheet (200KB PDF). You can also contact our Global Service Centre on 131 881.
Note: If you have already been provided with a paper application form and notification of an application bar lift, you can still apply for a RoS visa online via ImmiAccount
The online application form asks if you agree to the department communicating with you via email. This is the department’s preferred and fastest method of communication. If you do not agree to email communication, we will send you information by post, which is slower. Your application may take longer to finalise if we need to contact you about it by post.
If you have already applied and you want us to communicate with you by email but you did not select this option in your application, complete Form 1193 Communicating by email with the Department (127KB PDF).
We will tell you when we have received your application by sending you an acknowledgement letter.
We can’t give updates on the processing status of an application.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You must wait for us to contact you if you applied on a paper application form.
We may require you to undergo health examinations. These will protect your health and the health of the Australian community. We may waive the health requirements if you have already satisfied the health requirements for the grant of a TPV or SHEV.
If you have submitted a valid application, you might be able to get financial or other assistance from the Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) program.
To access public healthcare, enrol in Medicare. Take your 'Acknowledgement' letter and supporting documents to a Medicare service centre.
You can provide more information to us, in writing, at any time until we make a decision on your application.
If you did not provide all relevant documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount. You may also provide them via email using the address provided in your visa application acknowledgement letter.
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
We will give you the chance to comment if we receive information from another person that could result in, or be part of, a decision to refuse your visa.
If you have a baby after you submit your application and before we make a decision on your application, we can include that child in the application. For this to occur you must tell us as soon as possible by:
If your child is born in Australia, we automatically grant them the same visa you hold at the time of the child’s birth.
If either parent is an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident at the time of the child’s birth, the child might be an Australian citizen by birth. See the requirements for evidence of Australian citizenship.
Tell us as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
Tell us if you no longer want someone to:
If you applied online upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount. You can also send it to the office where you submitted your application.
Things you need to tell us about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
TPV SHEV visa holders who have made a valid application for another TPV, SHEV or RoS (including a converted RoS) will remain holding their current visa indefinitely until a final decision is made on the subsequent application.
TPV SHEV visa holders can continue travelling overseas, for more information refer to Requesting Permission to Travel.
A RoS applicant must be in Australia for the grant of the visa. If you are overseas when your RoS visa is ready to be granted you will be contacted and asked to return to Australia within 28 days. If you do not return your RoS visa application may be refused.
We will tell you our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will send you a visa grant notification letter. Your letter will tell you:
You should keep a copy of this letter in a safe place for your reference.
If we refuse your visa application, we will send you a letter to tell you:
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You and your eligible family members can obtain an ImmiCard.
An ImmiCard is an official, secure immigration credential. It contains a photograph and personal details such as family name, given names, date of birth and gender.
ImmiCards also have a unique number linked to biometric and visa details in our system.
To prove you have a visa and to show your visa conditions to someone, use VEVO.
With this visa, you can work and study. You are protected by Australian workplace law. For more information on your workplace rights and entitlements see Visa holders and migrant workers.
If you are in Australia, you may be eligible for a free, fast-tracked skills assessment if you have skills in a priority occupation. For more information see Migrant Skills Incentives.
As an Australian permanent resident, you may be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia through the family visa stream of the Migration Program.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you may be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming an Australian citizen. For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant your visa.
You may be able to access a range of services offered by the Australian Government such as:
Services Australia delivers a range of social and health-related payments and services. For more information about the range of available services and your eligibility to access them go to Services Australia.
To receive an income in Australia, you need a Tax File Number (TFN). Income includes wages or salary from a job, government payments and income from investments. For more information or to apply for a TFN online, go to the Australian Taxation Office.
The Australian Government has developed a family safety pack with information on Australia’s laws regarding domestic and family violence, sexual assault and forced marriage. The family safety pack also includes important information about essential services and emergency contacts in Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Check your travel documents
Check the travel component of your visa is still valid in VEVO.
Contact any Australian Passport Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to apply for an Australian travel document.
When you hold a permanent Resolution of Status visa, you can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. This means you can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you like in the 5 years from the date we granted the visa, as long as your visa is in effect.
After 5 years your travel facility expires. You will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the travel facility of your Resolution of Status visa has expired, or if it expires when you are overseas, you will need to apply for, and be granted, an RRV before you can return to Australia as a permanent resident.
For further information on the travel facility on your permanent visa and advice on when to apply for a Resident Return visa, see Overseas travel as a permanent resident.