Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme visa (subclass 187)
Temporary Residence Transition stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors
Permanently
From AUD4,770.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa – it lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
Your permanent residency for citizenship purposes starts:
Include family
You can:
For this visa, your family members are:
You can also include someone who holds a subclass 457 visa or subclass 482 visa if we granted them that visa on the basis they are a member of your family.
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet the requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You will need to pay an extra charge called a second instalment for any family member aged 18 years or older who:
The second instalment for family members who apply for the visa with you is AUD4,890.00.
To be eligible for this visa as the main applicant, you must be able to show us you have Competent English unless you are exempt. If you are exempt from showing us you have Competent English, you must still show us you have Functional English. If you can't show us you have Functional English you must also pay a second instalment of AUD9,800.00 when we ask you to.
If you need to pay the second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
Apply for this visa from in or outside Australia. If you are in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a bridging visa A, B or C.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can`t process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You agree to begin your employment within 6 months of:
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must have the required skills and qualifications needed to perform the tasks of the nominated occupation.
We might ask you to get a skills assessment to show you have these skills.
You must be licensed, registered or a member of a professional body if it is mandatory in the state or territory you intend to work in.
Your employer must have sponsored you to work full-time on your subclass 457 or subclass 482 visa for at least 2 of the 3 years prior to nominating you for the subclass 187 visa.
Usually, you must be under 45 years of age when you apply.
You are exempt from this criteria if any of the following applies to you:
If you held (or had applied for and were later granted) a subclass 457 visa on 18 April 2017, you can still apply for this visa if you are under 50 when you apply.
You must currently be the primary visa holder of either:
The bridging visa must be the one you were granted after your subclass 457 or TSS visa expired.
Legislation defines “transitional 482 worker” as a person who on 20 March 2019 either held a TSS visa (subclass 482) in the Medium-term stream, or was an applicant for a TSS visa in the Medium-term stream that was subsequently granted.
The 20 March 2019 cut-off date for “transitional 482 workers” relates to the date the Australian Government made announcements regarding the closure of the Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme (RSMS) Direct Entry visa (subclass 187). At the same time, the announcement was made relating to the introduction of the Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 494)
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Other family members will also need to meet the requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Other family members will also need to meet the requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
You must have at least Competent English.
You are exempt from this requirement if you have completed at least 5 years of full-time study in a secondary or higher education institution where all tuition was delivered in English.
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Make sure your employer has submitted a nomination application. They will receive a nomination Transaction Reference Number (TRN) when they do.
Ask your employer for the TRN. You need it to apply for the visa.
Criminal and civil penalties can be applied to anyone who asks for, receives, offers or provides a benefit in exchange for visa sponsorship. Learn more about work visa scams.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide evidence of any licence, registration or professional membership mandatory to perform the nominated occupation in the state or territory you intend to work in, if applicable.
We will ask you to undertake a skills assessment if you are required to do so.
If you are 45 years old or older, provide documents to show you are exempt from the age eligibility criteria.
Provide documents that show you have Competent English at the time you submit your application.
You are exempt from having to show us you have Competent English if you can instead show us you have completed at least 5 years of full-time study in a secondary or higher education instituation where all tuition was delivered in English. If this is the case you must still show us you have Functional English or pay the second instalment.
You do not need to provide health documents. If you have had medical exams, the results are sent to us by your doctor.
Provide an Australian police certificate. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police . We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police. For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove a de facto relationship include:
You must show that your partner has Functional English.
If you can't show that your partner has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is a family member and/or dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
For other family members, if applicable, provide evidence the person:
You must show us your family member has Functional English.
If you can't show your family member has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we decide on your application.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for Biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa in Australia, you are likely to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
You can add family to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
For the purposes of adding family to your application after you apply, your family members are:
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers .
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you submit you application include:
See what to do if your situation changes
We might ask you to get a skills assessment.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your application.
We must have approved your employer’s nomination before we can grant you this visa.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the visa application charge if we refuse your application.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the visa application charge if we refuse your application.
Check your travel documents
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card . You will be given this card during your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will override your permanent visa and might affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
This visa lets you:
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You must begin your employment within 6 months of:
Permanently
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO
To prove you have been in Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records
When you work in Australia, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements .
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible relatives to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your Resident Return visa in VEVO
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records (195KB PDF).