1. Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
2. Privileges and Immunities stream
You can stay for the time we specify in your visa grant letter. This is usually the time you are an international representative with the support of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay for the time we specify in your visa grant letter.
You can usually stay in Australia as long as you are working as an international representative with the relevant privileges and immunities and continue to have the support of DFAT.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant the visa (if you are in Australia at the time of grant) or on the date you enter Australia (if you were outside Australia when we granted it).
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
You can apply for another visa under the Privileges and Immunities stream in Australia if you continue to meet the relevant criteria or you can apply for a different visa.
See your options.
6. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our character requirement.
7. Cost
There is no cost for this visa.
You might have to pay for police certificates and biometrics.
8. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
10. Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
11. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
These must be listed under the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or the Overseas Missions (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1995.
You must have a letter of support from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) recommending that you should be granted the visa.
While you are in Australia, you must have the financial capacity to support yourself and any dependent family members who come with you.
You must continue to be employed:
You must do the work or activity specified in your visa application.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold or, in the last 12 months, have held a temporary substantive visa.
The visa you hold or have held in the last 12 months can't have been:
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You and your family must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your health insurance should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You must only intend to:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
See what you need to do if you want to get help with your application.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather your documents to prove your identity, show you have financial support and health insurance. Prepare them to submit online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide:
Learn more about police certificates.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
To prove that you can support yourself and any family you bring to Australia, provide:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer.
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
If the child is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form.
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be legible.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the charge.
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
See what you can and must do after apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If it is within standard processing times do not call. We can't provide any further updates on the application's progress.
You can see if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you applied for this visa in Australia and the application was assessed as valid, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Your family members must apply separately if you do not include them in your application for this visa.
To apply separately your family members will need to complete an application for a Temporary Activity, International Relations or Training Visa (Subsequent entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in VEVO.
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
If you have permission to work, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Your family members must apply separately if you do not include them in your application for this visa.
To apply separately your family members will need to complete an application for a Temporary Activity, International Relations or Training Visa (Subsequent entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records.