1. Subclass (050)
2. Bridging visa E (BVE) (Subclass 050)
Temporarily
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. Types of bridging visas
You can stay in Australia lawfully while you finalise your immigration matter or make arrangements to leave Australia.
There are two types of BVEs:
4. With this visa you can
You can stay in Australia if:
You must be an unlawful non-citizen, the holder of a BVE (subclass 050) or the holder of a Bridging D visa (BVD) (subclass 041) when you apply for this visa.
Your grant letter will tell you if you are allowed to work. If you work when you are not allowed to, we can cancel your BVE and detain you. You could also be removed from Australia.
If you are not allowed to work, there are only some situations where you might be able to apply for a new BVE that does allow you to work. For example, you might be in financial hardship if you cannot pay for the reasonable cost of your living expenses.
We will assess your situation to see if you meet the requirements. If you do not meet the requirements we will not grant you a new BVE that allows you to work.
There are different requirements, depending on whether you have applied for judicial review or ministerial intervention. There are also special rules for when protection visa applicants are allowed to work.
5. How long you can stay
This visa is valid until a specified date, or for a particular time period, or a specified event happens.
Your BVE will also end if:
6. Stay longer
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. If you are unable depart Australia or resolve your immigration matter by a specified time or event, you will need to apply for a new BVE or explore other visa options.
Explore your visa options.
7. Cost
There is no fee for a BVE application.
8. Apply from
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when the BVE application is lodged and  in order to be granted the BVE, you and anyone else included in your application will need to be in Australia when the decision is made.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
10. Your obligations
You and anyone included in your application must:
11. Travel
A BVE allows you to stay in Australia lawfully for a short time. It will end immediately if you leave Australia. You will not be able to return unless you have another substantive visa.
A substantive visa is any visa that is not a bridging visa or a criminal justice visa or an enforcement visa.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be an unlawful non-citizen, the holder of a BVE (subclass 050) or the holder of a Bridging visa D (BVD) (subclass 041), when you apply for this visa, and 1 of the following must apply to you:
You must be making arrangements to depart Australia.
You must be applying for a substantive visa.
You must be seeking merits or judicial review of a visa decision or citizenship decision, or be seeking ministerial intervention.
You can be any age to apply for this visa. If you are under 18 years of age please apply on an application with your parent/guardian.
You must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
Check if visa cancellation affects your eligibility.
A BVE application cannot be made in anticipation of becoming unlawful. You must be an unlawful non-citizen, BVE holder or BVD holder. If your substantive visa is still in effect, look at other visa options first and only apply for a BVE once your substantive visa has expired.
In some cases, when you make a valid application for a substantive visa in Australia, you will also have applied for a BVE. We will tell you if this happens. In this case, you do not need to lodge a separate application.
You should read about this visa, understand what it lets you do and the eligibility criteria first.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather the documents you need for your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide documents to support your application for the visa.
Include details of any immigration matters you are awaiting the outcome of, including:
Or, if you are applying for the visa because you are arranging your departure from Australia, provide details of:
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificate.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
The preferred method is to apply online.
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when you lodge the BVE application.
You can apply for a BVE if you do not already have an undecided BVE application.
Apply for BVE
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Complete Form 1008 Application for Bridging visa E - subclass 050 (333KB PDF).
Send your paper application by post to the Australian Visa and Citizenship Office nearest to you, as you might need to attend an interview as part of the application process.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
We can't give updates on applications.
Wait for us to contact you.
A BVE lets you temporarily stay in Australia. It will end when you leave Australia. If you travel outside Australia after you apply for a BVE, you need a visa to return.
But, in order to be granted this visa, you and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when we make a decision.
Learn about visa expiry.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
If you applied on paper, send the documents to the office where you lodged the application.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send to the office where you submitted your application.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will tell you when we make a decision about your visa application in writing.
In order to be granted a BVE, you and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when we make a decision.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you a BVE, the notification letter will tell you:
Keep a copy of the letter with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
To see your specific conditions use VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.