1. Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
2. Significant Investor stream
Up to 5 years
From AUD14,240.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years if you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021.
If you applied after 1 July 2015, and were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months.
If you applied for this visa  before 1 July 2015, you can stay in Australia for 4 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
5. Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, if you meet certain requirements. Explore your visa options.
If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a new Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.
If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the original  Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.
You can also apply for a second Significant Investor Extension stream visa. If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 9 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment(Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extention stream.
6. Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the main applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.
7. Cost
This visa costs AUD14,240.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant who was at least 18 years old at the time of application, and is assessed as not having functional English , and has not paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to their application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa will have to pay this extra charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant the visa to that applicant.
The second instalment charges are:
Use the Visa pricing estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
8. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
10. Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa
While the holder of this visa, you must have a genuine and realistic commitment to:
You must also maintain your investment for the whole of the visa period and comply with Australian workplace laws.
To be eligible for the grant of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, you must also live in Australia for at least 40 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. Or your spouse or de facto partner must live in Australia for at least 180 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. These days do not need to be consecutive.
You must make a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million. You must hold complying significant investments continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
You can switch between complying significant investments if:
If you reinvest funds into a complying significant investment within 30 days, we count that as holding them continuously.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital or emerging company investments, you must reinvest the funds into venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from the 'balancing investment' category of investments, you can reinvest them into another balancing investment, venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital because the venture capital investment has been realised, you must reinvest those funds. You can reinvest them in any eligible complying significant investment.
Income that you earn from your complying significant investment in Australia may be subject to tax under Australian taxation law.
Note that the investment rules that were in force at the time that you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream will continue to apply for the duration of your visa. This includes any Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream visas you apply for that relate to your visa.
You might want to seek independent legal advice to ensure that an investment is a ‘complying significant investment’. It is your responsibility to ensure your investment options comply with this visa's requirements.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
11. Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
12. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
13. Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
First, you must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). If an Australian State or Territory government agency accepts your EOI and nominates you, we will invite you to apply for this visa.
You must be nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency or Austrade before being invited to apply for this visa.
The State or Territory government agency or Austrade that nominates you must not withdraw their nomination after you apply, or we will be unable to grant you a visa.
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021, you must make (on or after the time of application for this visa), a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million when we invite you to, and have a genuine intention to hold that investment for the life of your provisional visa. It must be invested in the following proportions:
The managed funds can invest in a range of assets, including companies listed on the Australian stock exchange, Australian corporate bonds or notes, annuities and commercial real estate.
Direct investment in residential real estate is prohibited. Indirect investment in residential property through managed funds is strictly limited.
You must not use investments as security or collateral for a loan.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
To be granted this visa, you must make (on or after the time of application for this visa), a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million when we invite you to, and have a genuine intention to hold that investment for at least 4 years. It must be invested in the following proportions:
The managed funds can invest in a range of assets, including companies listed on the Australian stock exchange, Australian corporate bonds or notes, annuities and commercial real estate.
Direct investment in residential real estate is prohibited. Indirect investment in residential property through managed funds is strictly limited.
You must not use investments as security or collateral for a loan.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
You and your partner must have had no history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.
All applicants aged 18 or over at the time of application must either have at least functional English or you will be asked to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who have not applied for this visa must also meet the character requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for this visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI), be nominated by a State or Territory government agency, or Austrade and then be invited to apply.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
Your EOI tells us about your skills, qualifications and investment experience. It lets us know which states and territories you would like to invest in. If you are eligible and a State or Territory government agency or Austrade nominates you, we might then invite you to apply for the visa.
Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa.
Each nominator will assess your EOI using their own criteria. Learn more:
If you receive an invitation to apply for the visa after you submit your EOI, you will need to provide documents that:
You should have all these documents before you submit your EOI.
Submit your EOI via SkillSelect.
You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no charge for submitting an EOI.
Select the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188).
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
If you are nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency or Austrade, we may invite you to apply for this visa.
An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a Bridging visa.
If your current visa will expire before you lodge your subclass 188 visa application, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully.
You can change your EOI in  SkillSelect if:
You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.
You could receive an invitation any time within 2 years of submitting your EOI. If you are invited to apply for the visa, you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Receiving an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
If you are invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. This time will not be extended.
You must demonstrate that you satisfy all eligibility criteria. If you can't meet the eligibility criteria, we will not grant you the visa.
If you do not apply for the visa after two invitations, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect.
If you can't show that you can meet all other eligibility criteria, you should not apply for the visa at this time. If you want to update your EOI you can do that after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your first invitation, you might be sent a second invitation after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your second invitation, you will have to submit another EOI if you still want the visa.
New step summary
You can change your EOI in SkillSelect if:
You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.
If you are not invited to apply within 2 years of submitting your EOI, your EOI will expire. We will send you an email when your EOI is about to expire.
You will need to submit a new EOI if you still want the visa.
You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your proposed investment. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide:
Form 1139A Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position (SALP) (143KB PDF) for a date less than 3 months before we invited you to apply for this visa.  Indicate on the form which of these assets you intend to use to fund your AUD 5 million complying significant investment.
Evidence to support the ownership of all assets and liabilities and their values on the dates of each SALP.  This may include:
If you want to include assets held by a trust, you must include a complete copy of the trust deed including all schedules.
Provide a list of your intended complying significant investments and the amounts of each investment.  Note that you must not make your complying significant investment until after you lodge your application and we invite you to make the investment.
You need to provide your asset portfolio's source of funds
You need to provide a signed declaration listing the sources of funds for your asset portfolio, and that these funds were lawfully acquired.
Also give us evidence to support your source of funds declaration:
We will tell you when you need to make the complying investments and when we need this evidence. You must make the complying investment after you have applied for the visa.
You will need to show that the funds used to make the complying investments originate from the assets nominated to make the complying investments. The trail of funds must also be reasonably established with supporting evidence
Provide proof that you have at least functional English.
All applicants (18 years or older at time of applying for this visa) who can't provide evidence of having at least functional English must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge.
If you or your dependants have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
We will advise you when to pay this.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you, provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Proof of dependency
You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter contains instructions on how to lodge your application.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams.
Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms.
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams via ImmiAccount.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can.
Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
You can add your dependent child or children to your application any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
When we are satisfied that you meet all other criteria for this visa, we will invite you in writing to make a complying significant investment. Do not make your complying significant investment until we invite you to do so, as your visa will not be granted if you cannot satisfy all other criteria for this visa. Any investment made before lodging the application will not meet the requirements of this visa.
If we invite you to make a complying significant investment, your invitation letter will state the sources of funds that we have accepted for you to use for the investment.
You must make the investment within the timeframe stated in the letter (usually 70 days).
When you have made the investment, you must provide our office with:
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, if you were in Australia, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA expires when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you why it was refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
What you can do when you have this visa
This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
In particular, you must maintain your investment and comply with Australian workplace laws.
You must hold a complying significant investment continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT)  can help you with pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us when your situation changes.
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for 4 years and 3 months. If you applied before 1 July 2015, you can stay for 4 years.
The visa starts on the date we grant it.
To see when you must leave, use  VEVO.
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
Once you have the provisional visa, you can apply for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met.
If you applied for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream prior to 1 July 2015, you will be eligible to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream after 3 years and 11 months.
If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor Extension stream to extend your stay in Australia.
A person can be granted a maximum of 2 visas in this stream.
This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions.
To prove you have a visa and/or show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'.
Newborn and dependent child or children can be added to your 188 visa application before we decide on your application. However, your spouse or de-facto partner, who did not make a combined application with you at the initial lodgement of your application, can apply for the 188 visa under subsequent entrant. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.