1. Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
2. Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or Consular)
Up to 12 months on your first visa.
A further Domestic Worker stream visa will let you stay for the time specified in your Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) support letter.
From AUD365.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long can you stay
This is a temporary visa. If this is the first time you are applying for this visa, you can usually only stay for 12 months.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker stream visa in Australia before your current visa expires. You must not be in immigration clearance. You can stay for the length of time in your support letter from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts:
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker stream visa in Australia if you:
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances. See Explore your visa options.
6. Include family
You can't include family members in your visa application.
7. Cost
The visa costs AUD365.00 for the applicant.
You may also have to pay other costs for police certificates, biometrics and health checks.
To work out how much this visa costs, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
8. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide on your first application.
If you apply for a further Domestic Worker visa, you can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this is the case and invalidate your application.
10. Your obligations
If we grant you a visa you must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
11. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
12. Visa Label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be aged 18 years of age or older.
You must have a letter of support from the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
Your pay and working conditions must meet the relevant Australian legislation and awards.
Australian workplace laws apply to all workers employed in Australia, see Fact sheet for foreign officials about private domestic workers.
While you are in Australia, you must have the financial capacity to support yourself.
We need to meet with you to confirm your identity, employment details and see your documents. This may be at your nearest:
You must intend to work as a full-time domestic worker in the Australian household a person who holds a Diplomatic visa (subclass 995).
For more information on your workplace rights and conditions, see Fact sheet for Private Domestic Workers.
If you apply from in Australia, you must already hold a Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) in the Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or Consular Stream).
You must meet our health requirement.
If you apply for this visa outside Australia, members of the family unit who are not coming to Australia may also have to meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that family members who are not coming to Australia meet the requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You must have a genuine intention to:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or formally arrange to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we decide on your application. This means you may not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some cases you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused. See Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you need immigration help, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you need help with your application, nominate someone to help.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather documents to prove your identity and show you have your employer's support, financial support and health insurance. You must prepare them to submit online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
A copy of your employment contract signed and dated by both parties.
Letter of support from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
To prove that you can support yourself in Australia, give us:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer.
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificates.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply for this visa online. You must be outside Australia when you submit your first application.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker visa from in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the charge.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you applied for this visa in Australia and your application was assessed as valid, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You must be outside Australia when we decide on your first visa. You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide on a further visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have a valid:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will receive this card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in VEVO
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
Things you need to let us know about when you have this visa include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker stream visa in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, if you:
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances, see Explore your visa options.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
If you have permission to work, Australian workplace law protects you. See your workplace rights and entitlements
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records.