1. Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)
2. Labour agreement stream
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Up to a maximum of 4 years, depending on the terms in the labour agreement.
Hong Kong passport holders may stay up to 5 years.
From AUD3,115.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa, you can
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
6. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the period of time your employer nominates you for. This will be up to a maximum of 4 years, depending on the:
Hong Kong passport holders may stay up to 5 years.
For further information on recent changes regarding Hong Kong or British National Offshore (BNO) passport holders read Visa options for Hong Kong - update.
7. Stay longer
If your visa is expiring and you want to stay in Australia to work  for your existing employer:
Your employer could also sponsor you for permanent residence through the Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186).
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
8. Include other family members
You can include other family members (called 'secondary applicants') in your visa application. The family members you can add will depend on whether you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa.
If you have not previously held a subclass 457 or TSS visa, the secondary applicants you can include in your visa application are those who are members of the family unit.
If you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa and you are applying for a subsequent subclass TSS visa, the secondary applicants who can be included in your application are::
To be granted the visa, secondary applicants must be included in the main applicant's nomination, or provide written evidence that the sponsor who nominated the main applicant agrees that the secondary applicant can be a secondary sponsored person.
Secondary applicants who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can’t add family members to your visa application after it has been submitted.
If you have submitted your visa application and it is being processed by the Department, family members that were not included in your visa application can lodge a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
9. Cost
The visa costs AUD3,115.00 for the main applicant and each dependant 18 years and over.
It costs AUD780.00 for each dependant under 18 years old.
You will have to pay other costs for English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
10. Apply from
Usually, you can be in or outside Australia when you apply for this visa, and when we decide your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
12. Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days of:
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
13. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to check your visa details and conditions through VEVO.
15. Work
Conditions attached to this visa include that you work in Australia only in the occupation you were nominated for, and only for the nominator who has a labour agreement with the Commonwealth.
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
The nominated occupation must be the subject of a labour agreement between the Commonwealth and the nominator. See the labour agreement under which you will be working.
You must have had at least 2 years of work experience in the nominated occupation or a related field unless varied by the terms of the labour agreement.
You must be nominated.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Have the level of English language suitable for the nominated occupation. English language requirements equivalent to the short-term stream of the TSS visa will generally apply unless the labour agreement provides an English language concession.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you agree to or sign an Australian Values Statement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You will need to have health examinations and you might want to get help with your application.
You will need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them before you apply
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide identity, character, skills and proof English language competence documents.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information .
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide proof of change of name, if this applies.
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Show us you have the level of English language required by the labour agreement
If you are an existing TSS or subclass 457 visa holder who is seeking to change employer, you may also have to show your prospective standard business sponsor evidence of your English language proficiency.
You will need to provide evidence of adequate health insurance for you and any secondary applicants for the duration of your stay in Australia.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreement.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
We will tell you if you also need to complete and provide the following forms:
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
Where you need to prove that a person is dependent on you, provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
You apply for this visa online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
We might ask for more information. You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them via ImmiAccount as soon as.
We might also ask you to provide more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information available.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. You must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging A, Bridging B or Bridging C visa for your visa application to be processed.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may have been  granted a Bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Brdiging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you will:
Learn more about travelling on your visa.
Learn about visa expiry
Refer to Include other family members for details of family members who can be included in your visa application.
You can't add family members to your visa application after it has been submitted.
If you have submitted your visa application and we are processing it, certain family members that were not included in your visa application can submit a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, certain family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers  (168KB PDF)
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you apply but before we've made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing.
We will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
What you can do when you have this visa
See your conditions, work and study entitlements in your grant letter or use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. Check your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the length of your visa.
See when you must leave in your grant letter or use VEVO.
If your visa is expiring and you want to stay in Australia to work for your existing employer:
Your employer could also sponsor you for permanent residence through the Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186).
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
You must only work for the business that sponsored or nominated you.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
If you have been laid off and are currently unemployed, you have up to 180 days to find a new employer or make arrangements to leave Australia.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia, request your travel records.