1. Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888)
2. Significant Investor stream
This is a permanent visa.
From AUD3,400.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
There are concessions for some people affected by the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD3,400.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must also pay an extra charge. This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
You only need to pay it for family members who did not pay the second instalment charge for their Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
7. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
There are no standard processing times available for this stream.
Your application may take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
9. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
If you are outside Australia when we grant the visa:
10. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
You must be the holder of one of the following:
You can also apply if you are the secondary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream. If the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021, you must have held your visa for at least 3 years.
Arrangements were in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you were able to apply for this visa if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream or Significant Investor Extension stream which expired during the concession period.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you were able to apply for this visa if you were the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and:
When you can apply for the permanent visa depends on when you applied for your provisional visa. To learn when to apply see the Step by step tab.
Your family members who wish to apply for the visa must combine their application with your (the primary applicant’s) application. The family members do not need to hold a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188).
For more information on the concession period, visit COVID-19 concession period.
You must have a current nomination from a state or territory government agency or Austrade.
When you applied for your provisional visa, you gave us an expression of interest. A state or territory saw your expression of interest and nominated you.
You do not need to provide a new expression of interest. But, the state or territory needs to confirm that your nomination is still current, for details see the Step by step tab
When we granted your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa, you invested AUD5 million in a ‘complying investment’ or a ‘complying significant investment’.
To be granted a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) (subclass 888) visa, you (or you and your spouse or de facto partner combined) must:
If any part of your investment is or was a direct investment in an Australian proprietary company, then:
Investment rules for the Significant Investor stream changed on 1 July 2015. The rules in force when you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa will stay the same for your permanent visa.
You must meet one of the residence requirements below.
Unless COVID-19 concessions apply, to be granted a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888), you (the primary applicant) must have held a:
Unless Covid-19 concessions apply, if you applied for this visa and are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa in the Significant Investor stream you must have held a:
Unless Covid-19 concessions apply either:
or
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
During the ‘Covid-19 concession period’, time spent overseas will count as time being in Australia:
The Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream that expired during the concession period must have been granted on or before 30 June 2019.
You and your spouse or de facto partner must not have been involved in any business or investment activities that are unacceptable in Australia.
You must have a realistic commitment to continue your business or investment activity in Australia.
If you operated a business in Australia, you and your partner must have followed:
This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations.
All applicants aged 18 or over at time of application, who did not pay a second instalment of the visa application charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application must have functional English. If you cannot show evidence of functional English, you will be asked to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.
They will not need to pay a second instalment if they have already paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
Do not make a second instalment payment until we ask you to.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia must also meet our character requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time when the application is decided, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Unless Covid-19 concessions apply, you must be the primary holder of a:
You can also apply if you are the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and your spouse or de facto partner is the primary holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream or Significant Investor Extension stream. If the primary visa holder was invited to apply for their original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) on or after 1 July 2021, the secondary visa holder must have held their visa for at least 4 years.
Your family members who wish to apply for the visa must combine their application with your (the primary applicant’s) application. The family members do not need to hold a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa.
Arrangements are in place for provisional visa holders who may have been disadvantaged as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can also apply for this visa if you held a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor stream or Significant Investor Extension stream which expired during the concession period.
From 1 February 2020 until 3 months after the end of the ‘COVID-19 concession period’, you can apply for this visa, if you were the secondary visa holder of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) and:
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
The criteria for the grant of the subclass 888 visa in the Significant Investor stream include criteria relating to how long you (the primary applicant) have continuously held your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa.
When you can meet the criteria for the grant of the subclass 888 visa depends on:
If you currently hold a subclass 188 visa in the Significant Investor stream, which you applied for before 1 July 2015, you can only be granted a subclass 888 visa if you apply for the visa within a 1-month window which:
If you currently hold a subclass 188 visa in the Significant Investor stream, which you applied for on or after 1 July 2015, you can only be granted a subclass 888 visa if you apply for the visa within a 3-month window which:
If you currently hold a subclass 188 visa in the Significant Investor Extension stream, you can only be granted a subclass 888 visa if, when you apply:
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You must give us documents proving your identity and about your business or investment activity. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Hide
Other relationships
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents, if anyone in your application has been:
Also provide marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone applying for a visa in your application.
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents if anyone in your application has been:
Also provide marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone applying for a visa in your application.
Provide 2 recent photos (45mm x 35mm) for each person in your application. The photos must have:
You do need to have a current nomination from a State or Territory government agency or Austrade.
Fill out  Form 1414 Nomination - Business Skills class. Then:
Provide:
Show us you and your spouse or de facto partner have followed Australian laws if you operated a business in Australia. This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations. Provide:
When we granted your provisional visa, you invested AUD5 million in line with investment rules for the Significant Investor Visa. We call this a 'complying investment' or a ‘complying significant investment’ (depending on whether you applied for your provisional visa before 1 July 2015, or on or after that date).
Provide evidence:
The rules for complying investments changed on 1 July 2015. For that reason, the evidence you need to give us depends on when you applied for your provisional visa.
If you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa on or after 1 July 2015, evidence of your complying significant investment can include:
If you 'switched' investments at any time, give us:
New step summary
If you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa before 1 July 2015, evidence of your investment can include:
All holding statements must show the investor name, amount and commencement date.
For all managed fund investments, a new Form 1413 Declaration in relation to managed funds must be provided to confirm that it complied with our investment rules throughout your investment
If you invested in an Australian proprietary company, give us:
Your evidence must cover a period of:
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and all applicants aged 16 years and older, provide:
Provide proof that all dependent applicants aged 18 years and older, who did not pay the second instalment of the visa application charge at provisional stage, have at least functional English.
If any of the dependent applicants, who did not pay the second instalment cannot show evidence of functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge for each of those dependent applicants, when we ask you to.
If your partner holds a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa application as your dependent partner, we do not need evidence of your relationship.
If you are including a partner who does not hold a subclass 188 visa as your dependant,  we need to see evidence of your partner's relationship with you along with identity and character documents and documents about other relationships.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you must provide evidence:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
Otherwise, you must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, you must make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry
Learn about Bridging visas.
Health examination results are generally valid for 12 months. If your previous health clearance for subclass 188 visa is more than 12 months old, you will need to undertake new health examinations.
Do not undertake new health examinations until we ask you to.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as your can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, if you were in Australia, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA ceases when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa application we will let you know why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
We expect you to continue to undertake business and investment activities in Australia, following the intentions you outlined in your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records.
You can't add a family member to your application after we have granted the visa.
If a member of your family wants to join you later in Australia, they must apply for a separate visa that suits their situation. See their visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your Resident Return visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.