1. Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888)
2. Premium investor stream
Permanently
From AUD3,400.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add members of the family unit to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD3,400.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
You only need to pay it for family members who did not pay the second instalment charge for their Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs
7. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application may take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
9. Your obligations
You and your familymembers must obey all Australian laws.
If you are outside Australia when we grant the visa:
10. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
A primary applicant for the visa must be:
At the time you (the primary applicant) apply for the permanent visa, you must have held the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa in the Premium Investor stream for a continuous period of at least 12 months. You must have held your provisional visa for at least 1 year.
Family members who apply for the visa with you do not need to hold a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa.
You must have a current nomination from Austrade.
Before we invited you to apply for your provisional visa, you gave us an expression of interest. Austrade saw your expression of interest and nominated you. For this visa, Austrade needs to confirm that your nomination is still current.
When we granted your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa in the Premium Investor stream, you invested AUD15 million in a 'complying premium investment'.
To be granted a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent)(subclass 888) visa in the Premium Investor stream, you must have:
Our investment rules state that your complying premium investment of AUD15 million had to be in any of these options:
To be an eligible fund, a further requirement is that cash is to be no more than 20% of a fund’s net assets and derivatives are to be used for risk management purposes only.
Premium investors may elect to make a portion or the entirety of their investment by way of a philanthropic donation (endorsed by a state or territory government.
You and your spouse or de facto partner must not have been involved in any business or investment activities that are unacceptable in Australia.
You must have a realistic commitment to continuing your business or investment activities in Australia.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any dependent applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. If they can't show that they have at least functional English, they will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
They will not need to pay a second instalment if they have already paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to an application for a Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional)) visa.
If you have operated a business in Australia, you and your partner must have followed:
This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We might also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time when the application is decided, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You (the primary applicant) can apply for this visas if:
Your family members who apply for the visa do not need to hold the provisional visa.
You do not need to provide a new expression of interest, but Austrade needs to confirm that your nomination is still current.
You and your family members must have valid passports or travel documents for this visa.
New step description
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You must provide documents proving your identity and about your business or investment activity. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a death certificate, divorce or separation documents, or a statutory declaration if anyone in your application has been:
Also provide marriage certificates or relationship registrations for you and anyone applying for a visa in your application.
You need to have a current nomination from Austrade.
Fill out  Form 1414 Nomination - Business Skills class. Then:
Provide:
Show us you and your spouse or de facto partner have followed Australian laws if you operated a business in Australia. This includes laws about taxation, superannuation and workplace relations. Provide:
When we granted your provisional visa, you invested AUD15 million in line with investment rules for the Premium Investor stream. We call this a 'complying premium investment'.
Provide proof that you have held complying premium investments of AUD15 million for:
Provide:
If you invested in an Australian proprietary company, provide:
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and all applicants aged 16 years and older, provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
If your partner holds a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa application as your dependent partner, we do not need evidence of your relationship.
If you are including a partner who does not hold a subclass 188 visa as your dependant, we need to see evidence of your partner's relationship with you along with identity and character documents and documents about other relationships.
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
Provide proof that all dependent applicants aged 18 years and older, who did not pay the second instalment of the visa application charge at provisional stage, have at least functional English.
If any of the dependent applicants, who did not pay the second instalment cannot show evidence of functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge for each of those dependent applicants, when we ask you to.
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for all applicants under 18 years of age to permanently migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa (Class UR or Class EB) granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant, this section does not apply.
Otherwise, also provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply online in ImmiAccount.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
You don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, you must make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as your can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start.
You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA ceases when you leave Australia.”
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Learn more about Bridging visa A
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before will grant the visa.
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it. Do not ask for the invoice.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa application we will let you know why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
We expect you to continue to undertake business and investment activities in Australia, following the intentions you outlined in your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 - Request for international movement records.
You can't add a family member to your application after we have granted the visa.
If a member of your family wants to join you later in Australia, they must apply for a separate visa that suits their situation. See their visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your Resident Return visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records.