Visiting Academic visa (subclass 419)The Visiting Academic visa (subclass 419) closed to new applications on 24 November 2012.
You might be able to apply for a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408).
1. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Visiting Academic visa (subclass 419). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use  Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
This visa allows you to:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must:
If the sponsor ceases your employment or training, you must do one of the following:
Your family can apply to join you in Australia by lodging an application for a Training and Research visa (subclass 402). They must include a letter from your sponsor in their application agreeing to be their sponsor.
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.
2. Sponsors
This information is for an organisation who has applied to be a visiting academic sponsor under:
You cannot apply to be a Visiting Academic sponsor because it is no longer open to new applications.
You can use your existing sponsorship approval to sponsor new Training and Research visa (subclass 402) applicants until the sponsorship approval ends. Your obligations as an approved sponsor continue to apply existing Visiting Academic visa holders.
When this sponsorship approval ends, you will need to lodge a new application as a Training and Research sponsor or a Professional Development sponsor under a Training and Research visa (subclass 402) if you want to sponsor anyone else. You should apply for approval at least two to three months before your existing sponsorship approval ends.
The sponsorship is valid for up to three years from date it was approved.
You must be able to comply with following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have someone else authorised to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
Cooperating with inspectors can include (but is not limited to):
You must keep records that show you have complied with your obligations. All records must be in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person.
You must keep a record of:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
This obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.

Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@homeaffairs.gov.au
By registered post:
You must ensure that the person you have sponsored does not work participates only in the occupation, program or activity for which you nominated them.
If you want to engage a visa holder for a different occupation, program or activity, you must lodge a new nomination application.
This obligation starts on the day the person you have sponsored is granted a visa. If they already hold a visa when you nominate them, your obligation starts on the day the nomination is approved.
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest) of the following:
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
You must pay reasonable and necessary travel costs to enable the sponsored person  and their sponsored family members to leave Australia. They must ask you in writing for you to pay the costs. We can also make a written request on their behalf.
The costs will be considered reasonable and necessary if they include all of the following:
Travel costs must be paid within 30 days of receiving the request.
You will only be required to pay return travel costs once. If a sponsored person returns to Australia (whilst holding the visa for which you sponsored them) after you have paid their return travel costs, you will not be required to pay their return travel costs again.
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you may be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You may be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10 000) less any amount which may have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’ above).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen. It ends five years after they leave Australia.  This means that the department might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
If you sponsor someone to work for you as a volunteer without a salary or wages or sponsor someone to participate in a professional development program, you must secure an offer of a reasonable standard of accommodation in Australia for them and any family they bring with them.
If the accommodation becomes unavailable, you must find alternative accommodation for them.
A ‘reasonable standard of accommodation’ means that the accommodation must:
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is earliest):
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if:
The types of actions that could be taken depend on whether the sponsor is a standard business sponsor or has made  a work agreement.
If you have sponsored someone under a work  agreement, we could suspend or terminate it in accordance with the clauses of the particular work  agreement.
If you nominated someone under this visa before 24 November 2012 and they did not apply for their visa by that date, your nomination cannot be used. This visa is now closed. New applications must be lodged instead under the Training and Research visa (subclass 402).
The Research stream of the Training and Research visa (subclass 402) does not require nominations. After 24 November 2012, only the Occupational Trainee stream of the Training and Research visa (subclass 402) visa will require nomination.
If current Visiting Academic visa (subclass 419) holders want to stay in Australia after their visa ends, they might be able to apply for and be sponsored under the Research stream of the Training and Research visa by either an approved Visiting Academic sponsor or a Training and Research sponsor.