1. Subclass 890
2. Business owner visa (Subclass 890)
Permanently
From AUD2,890.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
A member of the family unit can include family members who hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit at the time their eligible visa was granted. This provision may apply even where the person would no longer meet the definition of members of the family unit, for example a child who has turned 23 years of age since their eligible visa was granted.
A member of the family unit who applies for the visa must meet our health and character. A member of the family unit not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health and character requirements.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD2,890.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each member of the family unit who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English and who does not hold an eligible visa when they apply. This charge is called the second instalment. This charge is only payable if you are requested to pay it and we send you an invoice.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
The Visa Pricing estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
7. Apply from
You must be in Australia when you lodge your application. Your family can be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance.
You must hold an eligible visa to make a valid application for this visa.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
9. Your obligations
You and your members of the family unit must obey all Australian laws.
We expect you to continue your business activity in Australia, or make a realistic commitment to doing so.
10. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 and 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must currently hold an eligible visa. Eligible visa means:
You must have been in Australia as the holder of an eligible visa for a total of at least 1 year in the 2 years immediately before the application is made. The 1-year period does not have to be continuous.
For the 2 years immediately before you apply, you must have had, and continue to have, an ownership interest in one or more actively operating main businesses in Australia.
For each nominated main business you must provide evidence of:
If you spent more than 6 weeks in total outside Australia during the 2 years, you must explain how you managed the business while you were away.
Business Assets
At the time you apply and throughout the 12 months immediately before you apply, you must show that you and/or your partner had:
Business Turnover
Employees
Business and personal assets
At the time you apply and throughout the 12 months immediately before you apply, you must show that the net value of your and/or your partner’s net business and personal assets in Australia was at least AUD250,000.
Business Practices
You must not have engaged in business activities that are generally unacceptable in Australia.
There is no age limit for this visa
You must meet our health requirement and any member of the family unit who applies with you might have to meet our health requirement, depending upon their circumstances. In some circumstances you will not have to do medicals again.
You should not do medicals until we ask you to do so.
You and the members of your family unit aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement. Members of your family unit not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the requirement.
All applicants who are 18 years of age or older, must:
If you, or any members of your family unit (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Notify the business development agency in the state or territory in which you intend to continue your investment activity.
To do this, complete Form 927 State/Territory notification: Business Skills class (140KB PDF) and send it to the appropriate agency. You can send it to more than one agency.
The agency will sign, stamp and send it back to you. Include this completed form with your visa application.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You must give us documents to prove your identity and information about your business activity. You also have to provide documents about members of your family unit.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide two recent photos (45mm x 35mm) for each person in your application. The photos must have:
Where one of the following criteria requires you to provide evidence for a period that ends not more than 3 months immediately before the date of application you must use the same date for each requirement.
You must provide with your application a completed Form 1217 Business Skills profile: Business Owner (Residence) (180KB PDF).
Additionally, provide an overview of your business career in Australia. This should include a statement outlining your business activities.
Also give us a short summary of how you meet the business eligibility for the Business Owner visa. Your summary should be 2 pages or less and explain:
Your summary should also include information about assets, turnover and employees. The information should cover the 12 months before you apply. Please give us information about:
To prove your legal ownership of the business, include all the items below that apply:
If you bought the business or businesses, provide documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
If you established the business or businesses, include documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
Provide a one-page organisational chart for each business claimed. The chart should cover the 2 years before you apply and show:
Also give us photos of business premises and business activities (maximum 6 photos).
You must prove that you:
Evidence may include
If you spent more than 6 weeks overseas during the 2-year period, you must tell us how you managed the business during this period.
It is important that you provide all documents and evidence that best supports your claims as processing may be delayed when excessive inconsequential documents are provided.
The evidence provided must directly link your management to that of the claimed business and must support activity over the specified period, including periods when you may have been absent from Australia. General correspondence etc, addressed to the company with no reference to you may not be sufficient to demonstrate that this requirement.
Provide proof to us that you have owned your business for 2 years. Evidence can include:
For the 2 years before you apply, give us:
Please ensure that:
For the 12-month period immediately before you apply, show us that your business employed at least 2 employees or part time employees equivalent to 2 full-time employees. Their employment must be equivalent to 2 full-time employees, each working at least 30 hours a week. Employees must have been paid at the federal minimum wage or Award rate.
Evidence of employees should include:
Also provide evidence that those employees are Australian citizens, permanent residents or New Zealand passport holders. Evidence can include:
To meet the business and personal assets requirement, provide evidence of combined business and personal assets in Australia equalling no less than AUD250,000 owned by you, your spouse or de facto partner. These can be held together or separately throughout the 12 months ending immediately before you apply for this visa.
Use the same 2 dates for calculating both net personal assets and business assets that you used for the business assets requirement.
Please provide a 1-page summary statement outlining all your assets and liabilities. Liabilities can include mortgages, credit cards, and loans (including unsecured and third party loans).
Note: if claims are not proven by the audited financial statements, or with other evidence recommended above, they may not be accepted. A decision on the visa application may be made without requesting additional documents or information.
Please provide evidence that the net value of the business assets was AUD100,000 at the beginning and end of a 12-month period ending no more than 3 months before application:
The following evidence is required:
Include supporting information such as
Cash assets
Bank statements or similar documents showing:
Plant and equipment
Provide:
Director’s loans
Bank statements or similar documents showing:
Real estate assets
Provide:
Goodwill
Goodwill may be included as an asset for Business Skills purposes, but only if:
Provide a certified copy of the original purchasing agreement for the business and a copy of the associated Stamp Duty Assessment.
Cash assets
Bank statements or similar documents showing:
Real estate assets
Provide:
Personal  loans
Please provide:
Stocks and bonds
Give us evidence of the stocks or bonds you hold and their value. Evidence can include:
Assets held in trust
Provide a copy of the trust deeds.

Other personal assets
For other personal assets such as antiques or motor vehicles, give us evidence of ownership and value. This can include a valuation certificate by an accredited valuer.
Ownership of a main business or main businesses
To prove your legal ownership of the business, include all the items below that apply:
Legal purchase of businesses
If you bought the business or businesses, provide documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
If you established the business or businesses, include documentary evidence of all applicable items below:
Please provide evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
If your partner is a person who was not included in or a subsequent entrant to your provisional visa application, please also provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa
If you are including a dependant aged over 18 years of age who holds an eligible visa granted on the basis of being a member of your family unit at time of grant of that visa, this section does not apply.
To include in your visa application your child who is over 18 and doesn't hold an eligible visa, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence in relation to the second dot point above.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
This information applies to dependent family members who are 18 years or older and who do not hold an eligible visa at the time of application for this visa.
You don't have to provide any documents to prove functional English if your dependant is a citizen of and holds a valid passport from:
Otherwise, provide proof your dependant has functional English.
If you can't show us your dependant has functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
For each person in your application, provide an Australian police certificate if they have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since they turned 16. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You must be in Australia when we receive your application. Members of your family unit can be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information
To apply for this visa, you need to pay the application fee before you submit your application. We will not process your application until you pay the fee. Form 47BU tells you how to calculate and pay the fee.
Your application should also include evidence of payment of the application fee and all the relevant supporting documentation.
You must post (with the correct prepaid postage) or send by courier your application to the Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre. If you submit your application at any other office or in any other way, it will not be a valid application and can't be considered further.
Postal address
Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
Department of Immigration and Border Protection
GPO Box 2399
Adelaide SA 5001
Australia
Courier address
Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
Department of Immigration and Border Protection
Level 4
70 Franklin Street
Adelaide SA 5001
Australia
We will let you know when we have received your application.  See what you can and must do after you apply.
We do not give updates on applications under assessment.
You don't have to have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. However, to be granted this visa you must be in Australia when we make a decision. If your family is part of the application they can be in or outside Australia when we make a decision.
If you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, send them to us by courier or post as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information, however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
Make sure you stay lawful in Australia by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you apply for this visa, you will be considered for the automatic grant of a Bridging Visa A (BVA). If you are granted a BVA, it will come into effect when your current visa expires and enable you to stay lawfully in Australia while we process your application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it. Do not ask for the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Use Form 1436 adding an additional applicant after lodgement, pay using ImmiAccount, send the form and evidence of payment to the address where you submitted your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our character and health requirement.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF)
Send your form to the office processing your application and include:
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible. Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application. Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and send to the address you sent your application.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but you must be inside Australia if our decision is to grant you a visa.
We will let you know our decision in writing. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
Your visa may have conditions. To see your conditions use VEVO.
You and members of your family unit must obey all Australian laws.
We expect you to continue your business activity in Australia, or make a realistic commitment to doing so.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is change in your situation.
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
You can travel in and out of  Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclasses 155 and 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for permanent citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check the travel component of your current visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.