1. Business Talent (Permanent) visa (subclass 132)
2. Venture Capital Entrepreneur stream
Permanently
From AUD0.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply and at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD0.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. We will ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa. The second instalment charges are:
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa pricing estimator  to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
7. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
9. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You must fulfil your business obligations.
10. Travel
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return visa (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return visa (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia until you have been granted another visa.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must be nominated by an Australian state or territory government agency before being invited to apply for this visa.
The state or territory government agency that nominates you must not withdraw their nomination after you apply, or we will be unable to grant you a visa.
If you are nominated for the visa, we will invite you to apply. All state and territory government agencies have their own criteria for deciding who they will nominate.
Contact the state or territory agency directly to find out more about their nomination process and what they want from you.
You must have a genuine and realistic commitment to:
You must have:
You must follow the terms of your venture capital agreement after you enter Australia.
The venture capital firm must be a member of the Australian Investment Council (AIC) (formally known as the Australian Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Limited (AVCAL)). The category of membership must be that of Venture Capital Membership.
Funding must be for:
All applicants aged 18 or over at the time of application must either have at least functional English.
If you can't show us that you or any dependant applicant 18 years or older has functional English, you can pay the second instalment of the visa application charge. You do not need to pay this fee until we ask you to do so.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Family members who have not applied for this visa must also meet the character requirement.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:
If you or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) be nominated by an Australian state or territory government agency and then be invited to apply.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
Submit your EOI via SkillSelect.
You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no charge for submitting an EOI.
Select the Business Talent (permanent) visa (subclass 132).
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
If you are nominated by an Australian state or territory government agency, we will invite you to apply for this visa.
An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a Bridging visa.
If your current visa will expire before you submit your subclass 132 visa application, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully.
You can change your EOI in  SkillSelect if:
You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.
You could receive an invitation any time within 2 years of submitting your EOI. If you are invited to apply for the visa, you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Receiving an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
If you are invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. This time will not be extended.
You must demonstrate you can meet the claims made in your EOI and that you satisfy all other eligibility criteria. If you can't, we will not grant you the visa.
If you can't show that you can meet all other eligibility criteria, you should not apply for the visa at this time. If you want to update your EOI you can do that after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your first invitation, you might be sent a second invitation after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your second invitation, you will have to submit another EOI if you still want the visa.
If you are not invited to apply within 2 years of submitting your EOI, your EOI will expire. We will send you an email when your EOI is about to expire.
You will need to submit a new EOI if you still want the visa.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Prepare proof of identity documents for you and all other applicants. You must also gather evidence of your venture capital funding and business intentions.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You must prove that you have the required venture capital funding.
Provide a legally binding venture capital agreement with an Australian company that:
The enforceable agreement must show you have venture capital funding of at least AUD1 million.
You must also provide a letter stating that the funding will be used in Australia for:
You must provide evidence of your business career and your intentions in Australia.
Provide a statement outlining:
You must also provide evidence of your genuine and realistic commitment to:
Include evidence that your nominating Australian state or territory government agency is satisfied that you, your partner, or you and your partner combined have sufficient assets to allow you to settle in Australia.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you and family members who apply for the visa with you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since turning 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof that all applicants who are 18 years or older at time of applying for this visa have at least functional English.
If you can't provide proof of having at least functional English:
We will advise you when to pay this.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Provide 2 recent photographs (45mm x 35mm) of each person included in the application.
Photos should have:
If you are applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter contains instructions on how to submit your application.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
Send your documents
After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms.
If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. You can track and manage your application using ImmiAccount.
We don't provide updates on applications. We will be contact you if we need additional information. Wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can.
If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your documents by registered post to:
Adelaide Visa and Citizenship Office
 Attention: Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled.
If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry
Learn more about Bridging visas.
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply and at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You must also tell us your residential address within 6 months of arriving in Australia.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return visa (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return visa (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia until you have been granted another visa.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
After you enter Australia, you must:
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check the expiry of the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.