1. Skilled Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 489)
2. Extended stay pathway
4 years from the date your current skilled visa was granted
From AUD425.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
4. Specified region
You don't need to be nominated again for the Extended stay pathway visa. If a state or territory government agency nominated you for your current skilled visa, you will need to live, work and study in regional and low-population growth metropolitan areas.
You don't need to be sponsored again for the Extended stay pathway visa. If a relative sponsored you for your current skilled visa, you will need to live, work and study only in a specified area of Australia.
5. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for a total of 4 years from the date we granted your subclass 475, 487, 495 or 496 visa.
You can check your current visa status in VEVO.
6. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
If you want to stay in Australia permanently, you might be eligible for a Skilled Regional visa (subclass 887).
7. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can:
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
8. Cost
From AUD425.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.00.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
9. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be valid.
10. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
11. Your obligations
You and your family members comply with all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
12. Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
13. Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
There is no age limit for this visa.
At the time you apply for this visa you must hold 1 of the following provisional visas and have complied with all conditions of that visa for at least 2 years:
You must have never held more than 1 of these visas.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
As you undertook a health examination for your eligible visa, in most circumstances you will not need to undertake another one. We will let you know if you or any family members need to have a health examination.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement. Family members not accompanying you to Australia must also meet the character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who do not apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
Before you apply you need to gather and prepare your documents.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to provide identity, character and other documents that prove you have complied with your visa conditions in Australia. You will also need to provide documents for your partner and any dependent children.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If you are or have been married, widowed, divorced or permanently separated, provide proof such as divorce documents, death certificates, separation documents or statutory declarations.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Provide proof that all dependent applicants aged 18 years and older, who did not pay the second instalment of the visa application charge at provisional stage, have at least functional English.
If any of the dependent applicants, who did not pay the second instalment cannot show evidence of functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge for each of those dependent applicants, when we ask you to.
We need to see evidence of your partner's identity and relationship with you.
Provide:
For de facto relationship provide either:
For both married and de facto applicants you must provide evidence that you are in a genuine and continuing relationship. Evidence can include but is not limited to:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
You don't have to prove that your dependant under 18 years of age has functional English.
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Provide:
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If you are granted a bridging visa you will receive notification of your visa grant.
We do not give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure your visa allows you to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you applied outside Australia, don't arrange travel to Australia, leave your job or sell your home until we advise you in writing that you have been granted the visa.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can to your ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will come into effect. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
If you need to pay a second instalment, pay it when we send you the invoice.
You can add dependent children to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Use Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement, pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia do have to meet our character requirement and might have to meet our health requirement.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as subsequent entrants.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers and attach it to your application in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application but not in immigration clearance. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, you must enter Australia before a date that we specify on your visa grant letter.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions, work and study requirements, use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
This is a temporary visa.
To see when you must leave or apply for a further visa to remain in Australia, refer to your visa grant letter and the information in VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. See your options.
If you want to stay in Australia permanently and you or your partner have satisfied the work and residence requirements, you might be eligible for a Skilled Regional visa (subclass 887).
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted the subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa might affect your eligibility for permanent residency through a Skilled Regional (Residence) visa (subclass 887) and ultimately, your eligibility for permanent residency or Australian citizenship.
If you wish to provide evidence you have a visa and conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can work in any occupation and for any employer, in line with the work and residence conditions attached to your visa.
If you were nominated for your current visa, and it was granted before 16 November 2019, you will need to live and work in an area specified as a Regional and low population growth metropolitan area.
If you were nominated for your current visa, and it was granted after 16 November 2019, you will need to live and work in an area specified as a Designated regional area.
If you were sponsored for your current visa, you will need to live and work in an area specified as Designated area, regardless of the date your visa was granted.
See your specific conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Members of the family unit who did not apply for the visa with you can apply to join you in Australia later as subsequent entrants.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
If you plan to return to Australia on this visa ensure it is still valid and allows you to re-enter Australia. You can check your visa validity in VEVO.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records