1. Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)
2. Medium-term stream
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Up to 4 years.
Hong Kong passport holders may stay up to 5 years.
From AUD3,115.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
5. With this visa, you can
For this stream of the visa, you must be sponsored to work in an occupation listed on the Medium and Long-term Strategic Skills List (MLTSSL).
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions conditions refer to your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD3,115.00 for the main applicant and for each dependant 18 years and over.
It costs AUD780.00 for each dependant under 18 years old.
You will have to pay other costs for English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator.
The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
7. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the period of time your employer nominates you for up to a maximum period of 4 year or up to 5 years if you are a Hong Kong passport holder.
For further information on recent changes regarding Hong Kong or British National (Overseas) (BN(O)) passport holders read Visa options for Hong Kong - update.
8. Stay longer
If your visa is expiring and you want to stay in Australia to work for your existing employer:
Your employer may be able to sponsor you for permanent residence through the:
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
9. Include family
You can include other family members (called 'secondary applicants') in your visa application. The family members you can add will depend on whether you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa.
If you have not previously held a subclass 457 or TSS visa, the secondary applicants you can include in your visa application are those who are members of the family unit.
If you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa and you are applying for a subsequent subclass TSS visa, the secondary applicants who can be included in your application are:
To be granted the visa, secondary applicants must be included in the main applicant's nomination, or provide written evidence that the sponsor who nominated the main applicant agrees that the secondary applicant can be a secondary sponsored person.
Secondary applicants who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can’t add family members to your visa application after it has been submitted.
If you have submitted your visa application and it is being processed by the Department, family members that were not included in your visa application can lodge a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
10. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application.
12. Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days of:
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
13. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to check your visa details and conditions through VEVO.
15. Work
Conditions attached to this visa include that you work in Australia only in the occupation you were nominated for and only for your nominating business or in some circumstances, an associated entity of the business.
Your family can also live, study and work in Australia.
Learn more about conditions on this visa.
There is no age requirement for this visa.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
If you are in Australia at the time of decision, you must have substantially complied with any conditions that apply or applied to your last substantive visa or bridging visa held.
Before you can apply for a TSS visa, your proposed employer will need to lodge a nomination application for you. They will only be able to do this if they are an approved sponsor or have at least lodged an application to become a Standard business sponsor.
Your employer must have nominated you to fill an occupation specified on the Medium and Long-term Strategic Skills List (MLTSSL).
You must be employed:
You must be employed:
You might be exempt from this criterion if you have a certain occupation.
If you are the primary visa applicant, you must demonstrate that you have the skills and experience necessary to perform the nominated occupation.
Some applicants must undertake a skills assessment to demonstrate this – see Have a positive skills assessment below.
If it is not mandatory for you to undertake a skills assessment, you are still required to provide other evidence to demonstrate that you meet these requirement. - see Skills and occupation documents under Step by Step tab.
If the nominated occupation is a medical practitioner, you must have your qualifications recognised by the relevant authority in Australia for the registration of medical practitioners as entitling you to practise as a medical practitioner.
You must have at least 2 years relevant work experience in the nominated occupation or a related field.
Such work experience must be completed while working in the nominated occupation or performing tasks at the same skill level in a related field.
Work experience gained in a related field would involve tasks which are the same or closely related to those of the nominated position you intend to work as outlined in the Australian and New Zealand Standard Classification of Occupations (ANZSCO)..
Generally, you should have gained your experience on a full-time basis within the last 5 years. The period does not need to be continuous. We might consider equivalent part-time work. We do not consider casual work.
Other ways you may be able to demonstrate your work experience could include where you have gained your experience:
If the formal arrangement as specified above was:
Some primary TSS visa applicants must undergo a mandatory skills assessment as part of the visa application process. Applicants who fit into this category and the type of assessment required are outlined in the IMMI 18/039: Mandatory Skills Assessment—Subclass 482 Visa. Depending on your nominated occupation, this will be a skills assessment by Trades Recognition Australia or VETASSESS.
Important: where a mandatory skills assessment is required, it must be commenced before submitting your visa application or your application will not be valid and will not be processed. As a result, you will be asked to provide a relevant skills assessment reference number when completing your application form.
The mandatory skills assessment must have been undertaken or commenced within the 3 year period ending immediately before the day the TSS visa application is made.
You are encouraged to complete the skills assessment process before submitting your visa application to reduce processing delays.
Note:
You might be eligible to claim an exemption. Relevant exemptions are recorded under Part 2, section 7 of the IMMI 18/039: Mandatory Skills Assessment—Subclass 482 Visa.
Primary and secondary visa applicants are personally liable for healthcare costs while in Australia. Health insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must maintain adequate health cover for the whole of your intended period of stay if you are granted this visa. Your insurance should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport. It will be a condition of the visa that you maintain adequate health insurance while you remain in Australia.
See a guide to what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You and any secondary applicants who apply for a TSS visa must meet the health requirement. The results of health examinations are generally valid for 12 months.
Important: You should organise your health examinations upfront before lodging a visa application to reduce processing times.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Important: if you are sponsored by an accredited sponsor, you are not required to obtain police certificates from countries other than Australia provided you attach a reference from your accredited sponsor confirming that you are of good character and that you have not been convicted of any criminal offences. You must still, however, provide any required Australian police clearances where applicable or when requested to do so.
Paying for visa sponsorship refers to asking for, offering, receiving or providing a benefit in return for a sponsorship related event, whether the event occurs or not. You or any secondary applicants must not have, in the past 3 years, engaged in any such conduct. You may still satisfy this criterion if you have engaged in such conduct, and the Minister considers it reasonable to disregard it.
Primary visa applicants must meet certain minimum standards of English language proficiency, unless exemptions apply.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you and any secondary applicants are 18 years of age or older, you must confirm that you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you agree to or sign an Australian Values Statement.
Things you will need to arrange before you apply could include obtaining a skills assessment, an English proficiency exam or undertaking a health assessment. You might also want to get help with your application.
Ensure your prospective employer has or will nominate you for a nominated position in their business.
You will need the Transaction Reference Number (TRN) for the nomination application that your employer has lodged on your behalf when you submit your TSS visa application online at step 3. You can request this information from your employer if you do not have this number.
You need a valid passport or other travel document for this visa. If you plan to get a new passport, you should do so before applying for your visa.
If you get a new passport after you have lodged your application, update your passport details using ImmiAccount.
For some occupations and classes of applicants, it is mandatory to obtain a skills assessment, or have organised to obtain one at the time you apply for your TSS visa.
Check if you need to get a  skills assessment for your occupation.
If you are required to undertake a mandatory skills assessment we prefer that the assessment is completed before you apply for the visa. However, you can apply once you have the skills assessment reference number. You will need to record the skills assessment reference number in your TSS visa application when submitting your online application. It cannot be submitted after you submit your application.
If you need to show you meet the minimum standards of English language proficiency, organise to take your English language tests. English language test results can be no more than 3 years old.
You will need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Documents you may have to provide could include documents for your identity, character, skills, work experience, health and English language skills.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you can't prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide proof of change of name, if this applies.
Documents that prove a change of name include:
If it is mandatory for you to provide a skills assessment or proof that you have arranged to obtain one
We won't process your application if you don't provide this.
If you are claiming an exemption from undertaking a mandatory skills assessment because of an exemption specified in the legislative instrument you must provide relevant evidence with your application.
If it is not mandatory for you to undertake a skills assessment
You are still required to provide other evidence to demonstrate that you have relevant skills, qualifications and employment background to undertake the nominated occupation.
This may include, but is not limited to:
Registration/licensing
Where relevant, you must provide evidence from the relevant Australian registration or licensing authority (in the state or territory in which you will be working) that you hold or will be able to meet necessary registration or licensing requirements. The information relating to registration or licensing required must specify the type of registration or licensing held and the name and contact details for the registering or licensing authority. Your approved sponsor should be able to provide you with the necessary licensing and registration information.
Registration for Medical Practitioners
You must provide written evidence that the relevant medical board has recognised your qualifications and that you have been registered or will be given medical registration.
Curriculum vitae (CV) / Resume`
Curriculum vitae (CV) or resumé that you provide must include full employment and educational history, including dates and positions held, for at least the last 5 years.
Employment references
Employment references that you provide should cover a period sufficient to demonstrate relevant skill level. They must be on the letterhead of the employer and include:
Provide proof that you meet the minimum standards of English language proficiency or that you are exempt from the requirement to show this.
You will need to provide evidence of adequate health insurance for you and any secondary applicants for the duration of your stay in Australia.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreement.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
If you are sponsored by an accredited sponsor, you are not required to obtain police certificates from countries other than Australia provided you attach a reference from your accredited sponsor confirming you are of good character and you have not been convicted of any criminal offences.
We will tell you if you also need to complete and provide the following forms:
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
Where you need to prove that a person is dependent on you, provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
You apply for this visa online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
We are not obligated to request additional information or documents and can make a decision on your visa application based on the information available at the time.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. You must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging A, Bridging B or Bridging C visa for your visa application to be processed.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may have been  granted a Bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you will:
Learn more about travelling on your visa.
Learn about visa expiry
Refer to Include other family members for details of family members who can be included in your visa application.
You can't add family members to your visa application after it has been submitted.
If you have submitted your visa application and we are processing it, certain family members that were not included in your visa application can submit a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, certain family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Find out what to do if you have a child after you applied for this visa.
Let us know as soon as you can.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We must have approved your employer’s nomination before we can grant you a TSS visa.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have a valid:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions see you grant letter or use VEVO.
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days after your:
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the period of time your employer nominates you for up to a maximum period of 4 year.
To see when you must leave, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
If your visa is expiring and you want to keep working in Australia for your employer:
You can’t stay longer by extending the visa.
Your employer may also be able to sponsor you for permanent residence through the:
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Explore visa options for working in Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your length of stay in Australia.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Usually you can only work for the business that sponsored you. If your sponsor is an Australian business, you can work for that business or one of its associated entities.
When you work in Australia, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Learn more about your visa conditions about work.
If you have been laid off and are currently unemployed, you have up to 180 days to find a new employer or make arrangements to leave Australia.
Secondary applicants can apply for their own TSS visa as a subsequent entrant.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To prove you have been to Australia request your travel records.