1. Temporary work (International relations) visa (subclass 403)
2. Foreign Government Agency stream
You can stay until the time we specify in your visa grant notice, which may be up to 4 years.
From AUD365.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay until the time we specify in your visa grant notice, which may be up to 4 years (unless your employer approves a shorter period).
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant the visa (if you are in Australia at the time of grant) or on the day you first time enter Australia (if you were outside Australia when we granted it).
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
5. Stay longer
You can apply to stay longer in Australia under the Foreign Government Agency stream if:
6. Include family
You can include Members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
7. Cost
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The visa costs AUD365.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out how much this visa costs, use the  Visa pricing estimator . The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
You might not need to pay the visa application charge if:
You must provide evidence to show that your application is exempt from the visa application charge.
8. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
9. Processing times
Your application might take longer to process if:
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
10. Your obligations
If we granted you the visa, you and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
11. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must have a letter of support from a foreign government agency, foreign national government, or international organisation recognised by Australia.
If you applied as a foreign language teacher, you must also provide a letter of support from an Australian school or relevant state or territory education authority.
While you are in Australia, you must be able to support yourself and any dependent family members who come with you.
Your employment in Australia should benefit Australia. Your work should not disadvantage Australian residents and will contribute to one of the following:
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold or have in the last 12 months held a temporary substantive visa.
The temporary substantive visa you hold or held must not have been a:
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You must only intend to:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you need help with your application, nominate someone to help.
You might need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Find out the examinations you need  and how to arrange them if you want to have them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather documents to prove your identity and show you have your employer's support, financial support and health insurance. You will need to prepare them to submit online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide a letter of support from a foreign government agency, foreign national government or international organisation recognised by Australia.The letter must confirm:
If you are applying in Australia, the letter of support can be provided by your embassy or consulate in Australia.
Provide a statement that your employment in Australia will benefit Australia. The statement can be part of the letter of support.
The statement must explain why it is necessary to employ you. It must also establish that your employment will not disadvantage Australian residents and will contribute to one of the following:
Provide a statement from the Australian school or educational authority supporting your intention to work in an Australian school.
To prove that you can support yourself and any family you bring to Australia, provide:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer.
Provide:
Learn more about police certificates.
To nominate someone to:
See more about getting help with your application.
If you have listed your spouse/partner on your visa application you will need to provide the following:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who has a legal right to decide where the child lives.
They must complete either:
Include an identity document that shows the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a passport or driver’s licence.
Alternatively, you can show us:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, and is not your partner or spouse provide:
You need to prove that this person is dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the charge.
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you applied for this visa in Australia and your application was assessed as valid, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Your family member may be able to apply using a Temporary Activity, International Relations or Training Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide on your visa application.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in VEVO.
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
See your options.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
If you have permission to work, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
You can apply for a subsequent entrant visa for your family member in ImmiAccount.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records.