1. (Subclass 870)
2. Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa (Subclass 870)
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Up to 3 or 5 years
Up to 3 years AUD5,895
Up to 5 years AUD11,785
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa you can
You cannot work in Australia while you hold this visa.
6. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. This visa does not lead to permanent residence. You cannot apply for a permanent or temporary parent visa when you have applied for or hold this visa.
You can apply to stay in Australia for up to 3 or 5 years at a time, with a cumulative maximum stay of 10 years..
If you held a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa and were outside Australia on 1 July 2021, your visa period was automatically extended by 18 months under the COVID-19 visa concessions. If your visa was extended under this concession, the additional 18 months will not count towards your cumulative 10 year maximum stay.
You can stay for the period or date(s) specified on the visa grant letter. We will determine how long your visa is granted for.
Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
You might not be granted the length of stay you want.
If you have been granted a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, the sponsor’s other parent cannot be granted a visa with a later end date.
For example:
Parent A and Parent B are both sponsored by Child A. Parent A applies for a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, and the visa is granted for three (3) years. Parent B applies for a three (3) year Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa some 18 months later. In this scenario, Parent B can only be granted a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa for the remaining period of Parent A’s visa validity period (in this case, 12 months). The same amount of Visa Application Charge is payable for Parent A and Parent B.
Your visa will end:
7. Stay longer
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. If you wish to remain in Australia, you must apply for and be granted another visa.
8. Applying for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa
If you are applying for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, you must lodge your application from outside of Australia. This applies unless we have issued you with Permission to Apply in Australia (but not in immigration clearance).
If you apply for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa whilst outside of Australia, you will not be eligible for this visa unless you have been outside of Australia for at least 90 consecutive days since your relevant departure day.
You can calculate your relevant departure day based on your location when your last Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa ceased:
If you have held Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visas for the cumulative maximum 10 year period, you will not be eligible for a further Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa. You must either depart Australia or apply for and be granted another kind of visa that will allow you to remain in Australia.
9. Include family
You cannot include family members in your visa application.
10. Sponsorship
You must have an approved Parent Sponsor to apply for this visa.
Your sponsor’s household is limited to one sponsorship at a time.
Your sponsor’s sponsorship can cover up to 2 parents per household at a time.
Your sponsor cannot lodge a new sponsorship application until their current approved sponsorship ends.
11. Cost
This visa costs from:
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to. See more about visa fees and charges.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates biometrics.
To work out what this visa will cost, you can use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
12. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply for this visa, unless you have Permission to Apply in Australia (but not in immigration clearance).
Permission to Apply in Australia may be approved in exceptional circumstances. This may include where the parent cannot depart Australia, for example, because of:
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide your application.
13. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
14. Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
15. Your obligations
You must obey Australian laws and meet all visa conditions.
16. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
To be eligible to apply, you must:
There is no balance of family test or Assurance of Support requirements for this visa.
You must have an approved Parent Sponsor to apply for this visa.
You must have met and complied with any previous visa obligations.
You must meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
You must have, or have access to, enough money to support yourself while you are in Australia.
You must intend to:
If you have already lodged a permanent parent visa application, you may visit Australia, but not remain in Australia permanently while the application is being decided. This is a temporary visa only. You will not have the right to permanent residence. You cannot apply for a permanent or temporary parent visa if you have applied for or hold this visa.
You must have and maintain adequate arrangements for health insurance from an Australian Health Insurance provider to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need while you are in Australia.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
If you owe the Australian Government money or you have a public health debt, you must have paid it back or have arrangements in place to pay it back.
Before you apply, check you are eligible. Check that you have an approved Parent Sponsor. You can't apply for or be granted this visa if you do not have an approved Parent Sponsor.
You must have a valid passport. We will only grant the visa if you have a valid passport.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide evidence to support your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
We will tell your approved Parent Sponsor if you have Permission to Apply in Australia (but not in immigration clearance) if we approve their sponsorship.
This advice will be provided in a Permission to Apply letter.
You must attach a copy of this letter to your visa application.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
Also provide:
Complete and provide the following forms:
Check ImmiAccount if you need to do any health examinations. If health examinations are required, you may wish to do them before lodging your application so that we can process your application more quickly.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original copies and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
NOTE: You cannot apply for a permanent or temporary parent visa when you have applied for or hold this visa.
You must apply:
If you have Permission to Apply in Australia in Australia, you must apply within 60 days of sponsorship approval. If you do not apply within 60 days, your approved Parent Sponsor may apply again for Permission to Apply in Australia, if the sponsorship is valid and there are exceptional circumstances for applying while in Australia.
If we do not approve the Permission to Apply in Australia request, you will have to:
Complete applications might be processed quicker. Incomplete ones might be delayed or refused if there is insufficient information to show you meet the requirements.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
We will not give you updates on your application’s progress within normal processing times. You can check your application progress in ImmiAccount. We will let you know if you need to provide anything further.
You can check if we need more information in ImmiAccount.
If you are outside Australia, do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
Attach any documents you did not provide with your application into ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Attach a completed Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) to your application in ImmiAccount.
Tell us if things change after you apply but before we've made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
We will let you know if you need to do any other health examinations.
You must pay a second instalment before we will grant the visa. We will send you an invoice when it is due. If you do not pay the invoice, we will refuse your application.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
You can withdraw your visa application at any time before we decide on the application.
To withdraw your application, advise us in writing. Follow the instruction to withdraw your visa application.
You must attach the completed form to your application in ImmiAccount.
We will not refund the visa application fee if you withdraw your application.
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide your application.
We will let you know our decision in writing. If we grant you the visa, we will let you know:
Keep a copy of our decision.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have:
Completing an Incoming Passenger Card
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use  SmartGate
You must obey all Australian laws.
See what to do if your situation changes.
If your approved Parent Sponsor withdraws their sponsorship you will need to find a new sponsor or your visa will cease.
The new sponsorship application must be lodged within 35 days of the original sponsorship withdrawal and the new sponsor must meet the sponsor eligibility requirements.
Where a new sponsorship is approved, the previous Parent Sponsor will still need to pay any outstanding health debts incurred by the sponsored parent in Australia while they were the parent sponsor.
If a new sponsorship is not approved, you will need to either apply for and be granted a different kind of visa to stay in Australia or make arrangements to leave Australia.
If your approved Parent Sponsor dies, a new sponsorship application can be lodged to be your new Parent Sponsor. This must be done within 90 days of death of the approved Parent Sponsor.
The new sponsor must meet the sponsor eligibility requirements.
To see your visa expiry and conditions use VEVO.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You are not allowed to work in Australia while you hold this visa.
You can undertake the following unpaid work:
However, you cannot undertake any unpaid work:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.