1. Subclass 010
2. Bridging visa A (BVA) (Subclass 010)
Temporarily
There are no processing times available for this visa.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. About this visa
This is a temporary visa. Nearly all bridging visas are applied for automatically as part of applying for a substantive visa. We will tell you if this happens. Check if you already hold a Bridging visa A (BVA) with VEVO.
A separate application for a BVA may be necessary where:
You can't use a bridging visa while you wait for a citizenship application to be decided.
A BVA comes 'in to effect' when:
Visa holders must adhere to the conditions imposed on their visa. Where you are granted a BVA, you will be notified about the conditions that apply.
If you hold a substantive visa when your BVA is granted, you must continue to comply with the conditions of the substantive visa. When your substantive visa ceases, the conditions of your BVA will apply.
The BVA does not support return travel to Australia.
You might be allowed to work in Australia depending on the visa conditions that apply to your BVA. Your grant letter will tell you about these conditions. See if you have work restrictions in VEVO.
If your BVA does not let you work, or has restrictions on working, you can apply for another BVA that lets you work. To be considered for a BVA that lets you work, you will usually have to demonstrate that you are in financial hardship.
We will assess your circumstances in relation to your claim that you need to work. If you do not meet the requirements for work, and you are still eligible for a BVA, we will grant you a new BVA with the same work prevention or restriction condition that was on your previous BVA.
You cannot be granted a new BVA that lets you work if your current BVA prevents or restricts you from working in Australia and either:
If a merits review tribunal upholds our decision to refuse your substantive visa application and you apply for judicial review, you will need to apply for a bridging visa to maintain your lawful status during the judicial review proceedings. If you have applied for judicial review you can only apply for a bridging visa by webform.
4. With this visa you can
A BVA will end immediately if the following situations occur:
5. How long you can stay
In all other situations one of the following outcomes will determine when your BVA ceases:
Once you have been notified of an outcome you can see exactly how long you can stay in Australia in VEVO.
Your BVA will cease 35 calendar days after:
You BVA will cease 28 calendar days after:
Your BVA will cease 28 days after the date that one of the following happens:
6. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you wish to stay longer.
Explore your visa options.
7. Include family
If you and your family have applied together for a substantive visa in Australia, you might have also applied together for a BVA. Check if family members already hold a BVA with VEVO.
If you apply separately for a BVA, you can include members of the family unit in your BVA application if they are included in your substantive visa application.
We will assess each member of the family unit's application and decide which bridging visa they can be granted.
8. Cost
Free
9. Apply from
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when the BVA application is submitted and granted.
10. Your obligations
You and anyone included in your application must:
See the conditions that will and might be applied to a BVA.
11. Travel
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it. A BVA that is in-effect will cease upon departure from Australia. To see if your BVA is in effect, see VEVO.
If you want to travel and return to Australia whilst your substantive visa application is being processed, you will need to have been granted a BVB before you leave.
12. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
These are some of the common eligibility criteria:
You must hold or have held a substantive visa.
You will need to be in Australia when you apply.
You must have made a valid application for a substantive visa that has not been finally determined or you have made an application for judicial review of a decision relating to your substantive visa application, within the prescribed timeframe, and the judicial review proceedings have not been completed.
You must apply within the prescribed timeframe.
You must apply for review within the prescribed timeframe.
If you have applied within the prescribed timeframe, you may not need to apply for a further Bridging Visa.
The timeframe for applying for judicial review is 35 days from the date of the Tribunal's decision.
If you have not applied for judicial review within the statutory time limits, this may affect your eligibility to apply for a further Bridging Visa.
You can be any age to apply for this visa.
You will need to meet the character requirement.
For all criteria see Schedule 2 in Migration Regulations 1994
Check if you already hold a BVA with VEVO.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Gather the documents you need for your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
Provide colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Provide proof to support a change to your visa conditions.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied online, or send with your paper application.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than 1 page, save it all as 1 file.
How you apply for a BVA depends on:
You must apply for the BVA in the same way you applied for your substantive visa.
If you applied for your substantive visa through ImmiAccount, you must apply for your BVA through ImmiAccount.
If you applied for your new substantive visa by paper form, you must submit your BVA application by webform.
If you have applied for a review of a decision about your substantive visa application, you must submit your BVA application by webform.
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when you lodge the BVA application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide accurate information.
You must apply for the BVA through ImmiAccount.
To apply for a BVA through ImmiAccount:
If you applied for your substantive visa by paper form
You must complete and submit your BVA application Form 1005 by webform.
If you have applied for review of a decision on your substantive visa application
You must complete and submit your BVA application Form 1005 by webform.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will tell you when we have received your application and documents.
We do not give updates on application processing times.
Wait for us to contact you.
If you leave Australia while your BVA is in effect you will not be able to return. A BVA that is in effect will cease upon departure from Australia. To see if your BVA is in effect, see VEVO.
If you want to travel and return to Australia whilst your substantive visa application is being processed, you will need to be granted a BVB before you leave.
If you are applying through ImmiAccount and did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
If you are applying by webform, you must attach all documents before you submit your BVA application. You cannot attach extra documents after you have submitted your application.
We may ask you for more information. You should provide information how we ask you to in the request letter.
Make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your bridging visa and your substantive visa application. It is important to submit your application early. This ensures enough time for us to process your bridging visa application.
If you and your family have made a combined application for a substantive visa in Australia, you might have also applied for a BVA. Check if family members already hold a BVA in VEVO
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Tell us as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Tell us if you:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount if you applied for your substantive visa online.
If you applied for your substantive visa by paper form, send your documents to the office assessing your visa application. You can find this information on the acknowledgement letter under Contact Us.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Some of the things you need to tell us about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application.
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when we make a decision.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the email with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
To see when you must leave after you are notified of an outcome, use VEVO.
To see your specific conditions, use VEVO.
If you get a BVA that does not permit work, you can apply for a further Bridging Visa with no conditions if you can demonstrate financial hardship.
We will assess your circumstances in relation to your claim that you need to work. If you do not meet the requirements for work, and you are still eligible for a BVA, we will grant you a new BVA with the same work prevention or restriction condition that was on your previous BVA.
You can't be granted a new BVA that lets you work if:
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it. To see if your BVA is in effect, see VEVO. A BVA that is in-effect will cease upon departure from Australia
If you want to travel and return to Australia whilst your substantive visa remains under consideration, you will need to have been granted a BVB before you leave.
Some of the things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
If you leave Australia on this visa when it is in effect you will not be able to return on it. To see if your BVA is in effect, see VEVO.  A BVA that is in-effect will cease upon departure from Australia
If you want to travel and return to Australia whilst your substantive visa remains under consideration, you will need to have been granted a BVB before you leave.
At the Border
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Proving you have been to Australia
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.