1. Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
2. Australian Government endorsed events
For the duration of the event (or up to 4 years depending on your circumstances)
From  AUD415.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Note: Applications for the Australian Government Endorsed Events (COVID-19 Pandemic event) visa closed on 1 February 2024.
Note: If you are seeking to extend your stay in Australia to pursue a workplace exploitation claim, you must be in Australia when you apply and have certified evidence of a claimed workplace exploitation matter.
For information on eligibility, cost and how to apply for the Workplace Justice visa, see Workplace Justice Pilot.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
Travel to or stay in Australia to participate in events endorsed by the Australian Government.
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You may be granted a visa for the duration of the event, or up to 4 years, depending on the circumstances.
Your visa stay period is shown on your visa grant letter:
You can check your visa details in the visa grant letter or use VEVO.
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
6. Cost
The visa usually costs AUD415.00 for the primary applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you. See Fees and charges for visas
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
7. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
9. Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You need to comply with all public health directions to stay safe.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
10. Travel
The visa is granted with multiple entry. This means you can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want during the visa stay period.
Re-entering Australia on a multiple entry visa does not restart the period of stay you were granted. The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.
Applications for the Australian Government Endorsed Events (COVID-19 Pandemic event) visa closed on 1 February 2024.
You must have enough money to support yourself.
You must meet our health requirement.
This means you may need to undergo a health check.
You must meet our character requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from the Department of Human Services about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
You can't use our temporary visa program to maintain ongoing residence in Australia.
The genuine temporary entrant (GTE) requirement helps us to make sure that you use temporary visas correctly.
We generally don't let temporary residents extend their stay in Australia beyond 4 years by applying for this visa.
We must be satisfied that you have a genuine intention to stay here temporarily.
When assessing your application, we will consider:
We will only grant this visa to a child younger than 18 years if all persons who have parental responsibility for them have given their consent for us to grant the visa.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application. If you have had a visa cancelled or refused you might not be eligible for this visa
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused. See Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia, see Can I go to Australia.
If you need help with immigration, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must acknowledge the Australian Values Statement. This confirms you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you apply for the visa. Learn more about Australian Values.
Let us know if you are getting help with your application.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Provide evidence to support your application.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Show us you can support yourself by providing:
We can also consider allowances, accommodation and other help from your employer or your event organiser.
We will tell you if and when you need to get a police certificate.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Applicants under 18 years old provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to visit Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be legible.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We will not process your application until you pay the fee (if required).
Each family member must have their application fee paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
If you leave Australia after you have submitted your application but before we have made a decision, make sure you have a visa to return.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO.
Learn about visa expiry.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a visa while we process your application.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa you may be granted:
If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your visa application. You cannot re-enter Australia on a BVA or BVC - there is no right of return on these visas and they will cease on departure.
Do not ask to have the visa you currently hold cancelled. If your visa is cancelled:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Check what conditions might apply to your bridging visa or the visa you have applied for with our condition checker.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied might include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To see your specific conditions and work entitlements use VEVO.
You must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws. Check your conditions on your visa grant letter or in VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to tell us if there is a change in your situation
The visa stay period starts on the date you enter Australia.
You can check your visa stay period in your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
See your options.
You must make your first entry to Australia by the date specified in the visa grant letter. This is the Must not arrive after date.
Once you make your first entry to Australia your Visa stay period starts. Your Visa stay period is the length of time you can stay in Australia.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want during the visa stay period while the visa is in effect and travel restrictions are not in place.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa. The visa stay period does not start again each time you enter Australia. Any time you spend outside of Australia counts as part of the stay period.
See your conditions in VEVO.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
To see your conditions for work, use VEVO.
If you have permission to work, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records.