1. Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
2. Pacific Australia Labour Mobility stream
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
You can stay until the time we specify in your visa grant notice. This may be up to 4 years.
From AUD345.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
5. With this visa, you can
6. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
The visa starts:
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay and any conditions of your stay.
The visa will be valid until a specified date. This may be up to 4 years. You must return home when your work contract ends, regardless of the length of your visa.
The visa has multiple entry.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you need. You must be holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and your visa must be valid.
You cannot spend more than 9 months in Australia if you have a short-term work contract under the PALM scheme.
While we may grant your visa for 9 months, you must return home when your work contract ends. This is regardless of the length of the visa. You then must spend at least 3 months outside Australia before you can return under another PALM scheme work contract.
Short-term workers who are granted a multi-year visa (up to 4 years) will have a condition on their visa which means they must return home after each short-term work contract.
You cannot spend more than 4 years in Australia if you have a long-term work contract.
Your visa stay period will generally be the same as the length of your work contract with your PALM scheme employer.
After each long-term work contract you must spend at least 6 months outside Australia before you can return under another PALM scheme work contract.
For more information see the PALM scheme.
7. Stay longer
Under the PALM scheme Approved Employer Guidelines, you may be able to stay longer to keep working in the PALM scheme if you are a:
You can’t stay longer by extending your visa. You must apply for a new PALM stream visa.
To be eligible to apply for a PALM stream visa in Australia you must:
8. Employment transfers
After the grant of a PALM stream visa, you may only change employment if DEWR approves the change.
9. Include family
The PALM scheme family accompaniment pilot allows selected PALM scheme workers on long-term contracts of between one and four years to bring their family to Australia.
Learn more about the pilot, see Family accompaniment pilot - for workers | PALM scheme
Families selected to participate in the pilot must apply as subsequent entrants to the PALM scheme worker’s Temporary Work (International Relations) (subclass 403) PALM stream visa.
Family members applying for this visa must:
Selected PALM scheme workers will get more information with their family accompaniment selection notification letter about how their family can apply for the Temporary Work (International Relations) (subclass 403) visa.
Short-term PALM scheme workers cannot bring their family to Australia on this visa.
10. Cost
The visa costs:
You may also have to pay other costs for health checks and police certificates.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
11. Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide your visa application, unless you:
If you are in Australia, you can only apply for this visa if you are a:
12. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case.
13. Your obligations
While you hold a PALM stream visa you must:
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
To view your visa details download the My VEVO app.
14. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you need. You must be holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and your visa must be valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
15. Visa label
We will electronically link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If you get a new passport while you hold this visa you must tell the Department using your ImmiAccount.
You must be a citizen and resident of a participating PALM scheme country.
For more information see PALM scheme.
Your sponsor must be:
Your sponsor will provide you with their temporary activities sponsor application ID that you will need to lodge your online application.
You must meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your stay to be granted this visa. Your cover should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
You must only intend to:
If you owe the Australian Government money, you must have paid it back or have a formal arrangement to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we decide on your application. This means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some cases you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused. See Limitations on applications in Australia.
If you are applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration help, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you apply to work in Australia, Australian workplace law protects you. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
The Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme is a sponsored visa program managed by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (DEWR).
Before you lodge your visa application you must meet the eligibility requirements to participate in the PALM scheme.
Eligibility requirements include:
For more information see PALM scheme.
You must also receive:
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to help you with immigration they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter. See authorised recipients.
Give accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
If you have changed your name, provide proof such as:
Provide:
If your stay in Australia is for 12 months or more you will be required to provide Police Clearance Certificates to meet the character requirements of this visa.
Your sponsor will give you a PALM scheme recruitment approval letter. This will include the PALM endorsement number that you will need to lodge your online application.
Provide your offer of employment from your sponsor. This must include:
Your employer needs to be a temporary activities sponsor. They must be approved by DEWR as a PALM scheme employer.
Each sponsor will have a temporary activities sponsorship application ID or Transaction Reference Number (TRN). You will need this reference number from your sponsor to apply for your visa.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You must apply for this visa online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
If it is within standard processing times do not call. We can't provide any further updates on the application's progress.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount.
This includes requests to undertake health examinations if required.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
You might need to have health examinations. After you lodge your application you will be notified in ImmiAccount if you require any health examinations and how to arrange them.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you applied for this visa in Australia and your application was assessed as valid, you were granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Learn more about visa expiry.
You cannot bring your family to Australia with this visa.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application. You can notify the Department of any mistakes on your visa applicant through ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your application but before we decide your visa.
If you lodged your PALM stream visa application outside of Australia, you must be outside of Australia when we decide your application.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
Check for important information on Coming to Australia.
You must have a valid:
All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You may be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions use VEVO.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
Learn more about visa conditions.
If you have permission to work, Australian workplace law protects you. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
After the grant of a PALM stream visa, you may only change employment if DEWR approves the change.
Things you need to tell us about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can stay for the period specified on your visa.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
Under the PALM scheme Approved Employer Guidelines, you may be able to stay longer to keep working in the PALM scheme if you are a:
You can’t stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new PALM stream visa.
To be eligible to apply for a PALM stream visa in Australia you must:
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you need. You must be holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and your visa must be valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your length of stay in Australia.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia request your international movement records .
If you hold a PALM stream visa and have concerns about your employment you can contact the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (DEWR) to discuss your options.
For information about minimum pay and conditions, and your employer’s obligations visit Fair Work Ombudsman.
If you know someone who might be involved in visa fraud, illegal work or exploitation you can:
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You may leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You may have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you earnt AUD450 or more monthly before tax.
See how to access your super