Skilled — Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 487)The Skilled – Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 487) closed to new applications on 1 January 2013. You might be able to apply for the Skilled – Regional (Provisional) (subclass 489) visa.
If you have applied for this visa but no visa decision has yet been made, you can add your dependent children to your application at any time until your visa is granted.
If you are granted this visa and your eligible family members want to join you in Australia, they can apply for the Skilled – Regional (Provisional) (subclass 489) visa.
1. Visa applicants
The Skilled – Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 487) is closed to new applications.
This information is for people who have already applied for a Skilled – Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 487).
You can add your dependent children to your application at any time until a decision about the visa is made. You cannot add a spouse or other family members to this application.
To add dependent children, you must notify us in writing. A fee is payable unless the family member is a newborn child.
For newborn children, you can use:
For other dependent children, use:
Lodge these forms by ImmiAccount, or by mail or courier at the Adelaide office in South Australia - attention Adelaide General Skilled Migration.
If you have added a dependent child who is older than 18 years of age to your application, they might also need to provide evidence of their English language skills to determine whether they need to pay for the second instalment of the visa application charge.
Points test
If your partner lodged a combined application with you and they meet the threshold requirements for a skilled migration visa, we might use this evidence to award you points in the Points test.
After you have lodged your application and documents, we will acknowledge that we have received your information.
Your application could take longer if you need character or health checks (including chest x-rays), if you need to provide more information, or if your application is incomplete.
Outside Australia:
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, do not make arrangements to travel to Australia until you are advised in writing that you have been granted a visa.
In Australia:
If you apply for this visa in Australia, you could be able to get a Bridging visa that allows you to stay in the country lawfully while your application is processed. If you are given a Bridging visa A, you can apply for Bridging visa B (BVB) to travel outside Australia while you wait for a decision.
You can provide more information to us, at any time until a decision is made on the application. If you want to correct information you provided, use:
We could also ask you for more information. You will have to respond by a set date. After that date, we can make a decision about your application using the information that we have.
If another person gives us information that could result in you being refused a visa, we will usually give you the opportunity to comment on the information.
You might also be interviewed. If you are asked to attend an interview in person, bring your passport or other identification and any requested documents to the interview.
You must tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount. If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.
You can withdraw the application at any time before we grant or refuse to grant the visa, using the following form:
Your request must include your full name and date of birth. You should also include the number we gave you when you applied, if you know it - this could be a file reference number, client ID, or a Transaction Reference Number.
You can withdraw the application at any time before we make a decision about it. To do this, send us a letter or email to ask for the withdrawal. Your request must include your full name and date of birth. You should also include your file reference number, client ID, or a Transaction Reference Number.
All applicants 18 years of age or older, wishing to withdraw, must sign the request for withdrawal.
If the visa is granted, we will let you know:
If the visa is not granted, we will let you know:
2. Visa holders
This visa is valid until the date we told you on your grant letter.
This visa lets you:
You might be eligible for permanent residency after you have:
The Skilled – Regional visa (subclass 887)is specifically designed for holders of a provisional skilled visa who want to apply for permanent residency.
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must live, study and work in regional Australia or a low population growth metropolitan area. There could also be residential conditions specified by the state or territory government in your nomination.
If you later apply for a permanent residence Skilled – Regional visa (subclass 887), you will need to prove that you have spent the specified time in that area.
You must live, study and work in a designated area. If you plan to apply for permanent residence, you will need to prove that you have spent the specified time in that area.
If you do not comply with the conditions of your visa:
You must tell us if your circumstances change.  This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth, divorce, separation, marriage, de facto relationship or death in your family.
Please report changes in your circumstances via ImmiAccount.  If you are not able to use ImmiAccount, you can use the following forms:
If you do not provide us with the details of any new passport issued to you, you could experience significant delays at the airport and may be denied permission to board your plane.
3. Sponsors
Your sponsorship period last for two years from the date the visa is granted.
For two years from the date the visa is granted, you have agreed to: