1. Business Innovation and Investment (provisional) visa (subclass 188)
2. Investor stream
Up to 5 years.
From AUD9,710.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. With this visa, you can
4. How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years if you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021.
If you applied after 1 July 2015, and were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months.
If you applied before 1 July 2015, you can stay up to 4 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa is valid from the date we grant it.
5. Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Investor stream if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
6. Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the main applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.
7. Cost
This visa costs AUD9,710.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You must pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English.  This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
8. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
9. Processing time
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
There are no standard processing times for this stream.
Your application might take longer to process if:
10. Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
In particular, you must commit to continue to maintain your investment and comply with Australian workplace laws.
To be eligible for the grant of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Investor stream, you must live in the State or Territory in which you made the designated investment for at least 2 years during the period your provisional visa is valid.
You must make a complying significant investment of at least AUD2.5 million. You must hold complying significant investments continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
You can switch between complying significant investments if:
If you reinvest funds into a complying significant investment within 30 days, we count that as holding them continuously.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital or emerging company investments, you must reinvest the funds into venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from the 'balancing investment' category of investments, you can reinvest them into another balancing investment, venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital because the venture capital investment has been realised, you must reinvest those funds. You can reinvest them in any eligible complying significant investment.
Income that you earn from your complying significant investment in Australia may be subject to tax under Australian taxation law.
You might want to seek independent legal advice to ensure that an investment is a ‘complying significant investment’. It is your responsibility to ensure your investment options comply with this visa's requirements.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
You must genuinely have a realistic commitment to continue to maintain business or investment activity in Australia after the designated investment matures.
To be eligible for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Investor stream, you must maintain your investment in an Australian state or territory for at least 4 years.
Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law.
11. Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from the Department of Human Services about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
12. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
13. Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
First, you must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). If an Australian State or Territory government agency accepts your EOI and nominates you, we will invite you to apply for this visa.
You must be nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency before being invited to apply for this visa.
The State or Territory government agency that nominates you must not withdraw their nomination after you apply, or we will be unable to grant you a visa.
You must:
For at least 1 of the 5 fiscal years immediately before we invite you to apply, have directly managed:
For the 2 fiscal years immediately before we invite you to apply, you, your partner, or you and your partner together, have business and personal assets with a net value of at least:
These assets must have been lawfully acquired and be available for transfer to Australia within 2 years of the visa being granted.
If you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021, you must make (on or after the time of application for this visa), a complying significant investment of at least AUD2.5 million. You must hold complying significant investments continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
It must be invested in the following proportions:
The managed funds can invest in a range of assets, including companies listed on the Australian stock exchange, Australian corporate bonds or notes, annuities and commercial real estate.
We prohibit direct investment in residential real estate. We strictly limit indirect investment in residential property through managed funds.
You must not use investments as security or collateral for a loan.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
If you were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, after you lodge your application, you must make a designated investment of at least AUD1.5 million in the State or Territory in which the nominating State or Territory government agency is located. This investment must be in your name or in your name and your partner’s name. The investment must be made from unencumbered funds generated from qualifying businesses or eligible investments. To be eligible for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Investor stream, you must hold the designated investment for at least 4 years from the date the investment certificate is issued by your nominating State or Territory.
You must:
You must score at least 65 points on the points test.
You can get points for many reasons, including your:
Check how many points you may get.
You must have a genuine intention to live for at least 2 years in the State or Territory in which you have made the investment application.
You will not receive an invitation if you are aged 55 or older at the time of the invitation to apply for the visa, unless the State or Territory government agency has determined your investment will be of exceptional economic benefit.
You and your partner must not have a history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.
All applicants aged 18 or over at the time of application must either have at least functional English or you will be asked to pay  the second instalment of the visa application charge.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia may also have to meet our health requirement.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
We may also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
If you and your family members who have applied for the visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must:
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must show that it has been paid back or there is an approved arrangement in place to pay it back.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia (129KB PDF).
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
You must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI), be nominated by a State or Territory, and then be invited to apply.
If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application.
You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa.
Your EOI tells us about your skills, qualifications and investment experience and lets us know which states and territories you would like to invest in. If you are eligible and a State or Territory government agency nominates you, we might then invite you to apply for the visa.
Learn what you need to do before you can apply.
Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa.
Each nominator will assess your EOI using their own criteria. Learn more:
If you receive an invitation to apply for the visa after you submit your EOI, you will need to provide documents that:
You should have all these documents before you submit your EOI.
You must score at least 65 points on our points test to be eligible for this visa. If you can't score 65 points, you will not be considered for an invitation.
If we invite you to apply for the visa, you must prove the claims you make in your EOI.
Use the points table to check how many points you might score.
We use the points test to help us select people who have the skills and attributes Australia needs.
You can get points for many reasons, including your:
Submit your EOI via Skillselect.
You can submit it from within or outside Australia.
Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no charge for submitting an EOI.
Select the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188).
You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted.
You can change your EOI in SkillSelect if:
You must be able to meet the minimum score of 65 points.
SkillSelect will update your points score when you make changes to your EOI. You can change your EOI at any time before we invite you to apply for a visa.
You can't make changes to your EOI after we invite you to apply for a visa.
An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a bridging visa.
If your current visa is about to expire, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfull
You could receive an invitation any time within 2 years of submitting your EOI. If you are invited to apply for the visa, you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Receiving an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa.
If you are invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. This time will not be extended.
You must demonstrate that you can meet a minimum points score of 65 and satisfy all other eligibility criteria. If you can't meet the points score and all other eligibility criteria, we will not grant you the visa.
If you do not apply for the visa after two invitations, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect.
If you do not receive an invitation
If you are not invited to apply within 2 years of submitting your EOI, your EOI will expire. We will send you an email when your EOI is about to expire.
You will need to submit a new EOI if you still want the visa.
You will not receive an invitation if you turn 55, unless the State or Territory government has determined your proposed business or investment activity will be of exceptional economic benefit
If you can't show that you can meet the points score and satisfy all other eligibility criteria, you should not apply for the visa until you can.  If you want to update your EOI to better reflect your points score, you can do that after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your first invitation, you might be sent a second invitation after the 60-day invitation period.
If this is your second invitation, you will have to submit another EOI if you still want the visa.
You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your proposed investment. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application.  See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information.
You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide:
Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
You must provide documents about your businesses, investments and assets. These documents are to prove that your investment is eligible for this visa.
An overview of your proposed business or investment intentions in Australia.
This can include:
Provide:
This may include:
If you want to include assets held by a trust, you must include a complete copy of the trust deed including all schedules.
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021
Evidence of ownership and net value of your business and personal assets
Provide:
Form 1139A Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position (SALP) (143KB PDF) for a date less than 3 months before we invited you to apply for this visa. Indicate on the form which of these assets you intend to use to fund your AUD2.5 million complying significant investment.
Evidence to support the ownership of all assets and liabilities and their values on the dates of each SALP. This may include:
If you want to include assets held by a trust, you must include a complete copy of the trust deed including all schedules
How you will make your investment
Provide a list of your intended complying significant investments and the amounts of each investment. Note that you must not make your complying significant investment until after you lodge your application and we invite you to make the investment.
Source of funds
You need to provide your asset portfolio's source of funds. You need to provide a signed declaration listing the sources of funds for your asset portfolio, and that these funds were lawfully acquired.
Also give us evidence to support your source of funds declaration:
We will tell you when you need to make the complying investments and when we need this evidence. You must make the complying investment after you have applied for the visa.
You will need to show that the funds used to make the complying investments originate from the assets nominated to make the complying investments. The trail of funds must also be reasonably established with supporting evidence.
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021
If you were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, provide:
You must demonstrate at least 3 years of owning and managing either:
If you want to prove your ownership and management of a qualifying business, provide:
If you want to prove your ownership and management of eligible investments, provide:
Provide documents only for items you want points for in the Points Test. Check what you can get points for.
To be awarded points for English language ability you must demonstrate that you have either vocational English or proficient English.
Provide a Certified copy of the trade qualification, diploma or bachelor degree to claim points.
Provide evidence of ownership of assets as at the 2 fiscal years prior to when we invited you to apply for the visa. Use Form 1139A Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position (143KB PDF).
Provide a full set of financial statements for the business:
Turnover claims must be further supported by submitting VAT or Income Tax Returns for the business.
Provide evidence that you have held one or more main businesses for:
For a registered patent or design, give us evidence which proves that you own it.
The relevant national or regional intellectual property administration office must issue this evidence. It must include enough information that we can assess whether your ownership meets the points requirement.
Also provide a statement outlining how the registered patent or registered design is relevant to your main business.
This statement must also show how it is applied in the day-to-day activities of the business. You must be able to provide evidence to support any claims made in the statement if we ask you to.
For a registered trademark, provide evidence that proves ownership of the trademark.
The relevant national or regional intellectual property administration office must issue this documentation. It must include enough information that we can assess whether your ownership meets the points requirement.
Also provide a statement outlining how the trademark is relevant to your main business. This statement must also show how it is applied in the day-to-day activities of the business. You must be able to provide evidence to support any claims made in the statement if we ask you to.
For a joint venture agreement, provide a copy of the agreement showing:
Also provide a statement outlining:
For export trade provide:
Evidence that at least 50% of the turnover of your main business related to export trade. This must be the case for at least 2 of the 4 fiscal years before we invited you to apply for this visa. You could provide:
We might ask you to provide a special-purpose report prepared by a qualified accountant attesting to your claim.
For a gazelle business, provide:
Also provide evidence that you have had 10 or more full-time employees for at least one fiscal year. This must be the same consecutive 3-year period claimed for growth in turnover. You could provide taxation records, insurance or superannuation documents or similar business records identifying each employee by name.
To show receipt of grant or venture capital funding, provide:
Provide proof that you and dependants 18 years or older (at time of applying for this visa) applying for the visa have at least functional English.
If you can't provide evidence of having at least functional English you must pay a second instalment of second visa application charge .
If you or your dependants have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
We will advise you when to pay this.
You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you, provide:
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Provide your partner's:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Alternatively, you can show us:
Include:
Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be:
Provide:
If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability.
Proof of dependency
You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you.
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Note: A child who turns 23 while your application is being processed and who does not meet these requirements cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter contains instructions on how to submit your application.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams.
Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.
You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information.
ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.
After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms.
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams via ImmiAccount.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about Bridging visas.
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them  as soon as you can.
Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan
If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong.
If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA). If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will:
Learn more about visa expiry
Learn about Bridging visas.
New step summary
You must make your designated investment before being granted a visa. You must make the investment when we invite you in writing to do so.
The invitation includes information on how to make the required investment and how to provide evidence that you have made the investment.
When we are satisfied that you meet all other criteria for this visa, we will invite you in writing to make a complying significant investment. Do not make your complying significant investment until we invite you to do so, as your visa will not be granted if you cannot satisfy all other criteria for this visa. Any investment made before lodging the application will not meet the requirements of this visa.
If we invite you to make a complying significant investment, your invitation letter will state the sources of funds that we have accepted for you to use for the investment.
You must make the investment within the timeframe stated in the letter.
When you have made the investment, you must provide our office with:
You must make your designated investment before being granted a visa. You must make the investment when we invite you in writing to do so.
The invitation includes information on how to make the required investment and how to provide evidence that you have made the investment.
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it.
You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF) and
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard the aircraft.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
You and your family members must comply with all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
In particular, you must maintain your investment and comply with Australian workplace laws.
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021
You must hold a complying significant investment continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law.
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021
To be eligible for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Investor stream, you must maintain your designated investment in an Australian state or territory for at least 4 years.
You must have a genuine intention to reside for at least 2 years in the State or Territory in which he or she made the designated investment application.
Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law.
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
Once you have the provisional visa, you can apply for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Investor stream if certain requirements are met.
If you applied for a subclass 188 visa in any stream prior to 1 July 2015, your visa will be valid for four years. If this applies to you, you will be eligible to apply for a subclass 888 permanent visa after 3 years and 11 months.
This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
See your conditions.
To prove you have a visa and/or show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'.
Newborn and dependent child or children can be added to your 188 visa application before we decide on your application. However, your spouse or de-facto partner, who did not make a combined application with you at the initial lodgement of your application, can apply for the 188 visa under subsequent entrant. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia and return.
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.