1. Visitor visa (subclass 600)
2. Tourist stream (apply in Australia)
Up to 12 months
From AUD490.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. With this visa you can
You can study or train for up to 3 months on this visa. But if your main reason for travelling to Australia is study, a student visa might be more appropriate.
You can't work.
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia. We do not consider you to have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
4. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
You can stay for the period or dates specified on the visa grant letter. We determine the length of your visa on a case by case basis. Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
We might not grant you the length of stay you want.
We can grant this visa with multiple entry or no travel.
If we grant you a visa with multiple entry, you can leave and return to Australia on the visa while it is valid.
You may need to show there are exceptional circumstances if you want to stay in Australia:
If you want to stay longer or permanently in Australia you will need to apply for a visa that allows this.
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
Explore your visa options.
6. Include family
You can't include family members in your application. Each family member, including those listed on your passport, must submit a separate application.
Find out what to do if you give birth to a child after you apply.
7. Cost
The visa costs from AUD490.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay:
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
8. Apply in Australia
Eligible applicants can apply for this visa in Australia. If you apply in Australia, you must be in Australia when we make a decision on your application.
You can apply for a new visa if your visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. You might be able to request a waiver of the no further stay condition in some circumstances.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
10. Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about visa conditions.
11. Health insurance
You are liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
To cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia you should take out adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia.
In some circumstances, we might grant your visa with Condition 8501 – Maintain adequate health insurance.
12. Travel
Check if you have multiple entry, or single entry, in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
If you have multiple entry, you can travel outside Australia and return while your visa is valid.
If you have no travel and you leave Australia, you have to apply for another visa to return.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.​​
You must meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
You must have, or have access to, enough money to support yourself while you are in Australia.
You must intend to:
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
You can only apply online if you are in Australia and:
We will assess if:
We will not grant you this visa if your current visa is, or last visa was, a Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) in the Domestic worker (Diplomatic or Consular) stream.
Unless there are exceptional circumstances that allow grant of the visa, we will not grant you this visa if:
You need a valid passport or other travel document for this visa. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before you apply.
You can complete your health examinations before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Include as much information as possible to support your application. This includes English translations of your documents.
We may decide your application without requesting further information from you.
Follow these instructions to ensure you submit a complete visa application.
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Provide as much proof as you can to show you are visiting Australia as a temporary visitor only. This could include:
Your reasons to return home such as:
Provide any military service record or discharge papers, if applicable.
We may ask you to provide a police certificate.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
If you are under the age of 18, you should provide a copy of your birth certificate showing the names of both parents. If you can’t provide a birth certificate, provide one of the following:
If somebody other than your biological parents has legal guardianship over you (for example, adoptive parents or a court-appointed guardian), you must provide proof of their legal guardianship.
Provide adoption papers or parental court orders, if applicable.
Anyone with a legal right to decide where you live, and who is not travelling in Australia with you, must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form, or declaration, such as a:
In addition to consent information, if you’re not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 - Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person you’re staying with must sign the form.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified unless we ask you to.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear and legible.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
See Eligibility.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
Tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application.
If you:
You might be eligible for a Bridging visa B, which will allow you to return to Australia if you leave.
We will let you know if you need to provide biometrics.
If you didn't have health exams before you applied for the visa, have them if we tell you to.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, attach them to your application in ImmiAccount as soon as you can.
We may decide your application without requesting further information from you.
You must stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
Apply for this visa in Australia before your current visa expires.  We will  grant you a Bridging visa A (BVA).  You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application.
Don't let your current visa expire before you apply. If you do:
Learn more about visa expiry.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Find out what to do if you made a mistake on your application.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
We will let you know our decision on your visa application in writing. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of our decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
Learn more about visa conditions.
Tell us if there is a change in your situation.
Things you need to let us know about include:
This visa lets you:
To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO.
Volunteer work tourism schemes
You can't work in Australia on a Visitor visa, but you might be able to do volunteer work.
If you have multiple entry, you can travel outside Australia and return while your visa is valid.
If you have no travel and you leave Australia, you have to apply for another visa to return.
See when you must leave in VEVO.
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. See Explore visa options.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Departures SmartGate
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
International Movement Record 
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.