1. Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 494)
2. Subsequent entrant
Up to 5 years
From AUD4,770.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
3. About this visa
Usually, you apply for this visa at the same time as the primary visa applicant. In some instances, this may not be possible. This may occur where the composition of the family changes after:
When this occurs and you want to join your family member on their visa, you must apply separately by submitting a visa application in your own right. This is known as subsequent entrant.
When you submit your visa application for a subsequent entrant, you are required to attach a written letter from your family member’s work sponsor (employer) extending their sponsorship obligation to include you as a family member in the nomination.
This requirement is intended to ensure the employer is aware of all the family members to whom their sponsorship obligations will extend.
Discuss this matter with the work sponsor in the first instance before lodging your subsequent entrant visa application.
4. With this visa, you can
5. Specified region
You can live, work and study only in a designated regional area. Designated regional areas include all of Australia except for Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
6. How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for a period of up to 5 years. Your visa will expire at the same time as your family member who is the primary SESR visa holder.
7. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
If eligible, you can apply for permanent residence with the primary SESR visa holder after 3 years from the time their visa is granted.
8. Subsequent entrant
Subsequent entrants who can apply for this visa are those who are members of the family unit of a primary SESR visa holder or a main applicant for a SESR visa.
Family members who apply for this visa must meet our health and character requirements.
9. Cost
This visa costs AUD4,770.00.
It costs an additional AUD4,890 if the subsequent entrant is 18 years and over and does not have functional English. This extra charge is called a second instalment.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You will have to pay other costs including English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
10. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we make a decision on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold either of the following visa otherwise your application will not be valid:
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application.
12. Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must live, work and study only in designated regional areas of Australia. If you do not, we might cancel your visa.
13. Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
You must have a family member who is a primary SESR visa holder, or main applicant for a SESR visa, to be able to lodge a subsequent entrant visa application.
The work sponsor (employer) with the most recent approved nomination in relation to the primary SESR visa holder, or main applicant for a SESR visa, must agree (or have agreed) in writing to include you as a family member in the nomination.
You must show that you have Functional English. If you can’t show that you have Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment.
You must meet our health requirement.
If you are aged 16 years and over you must meet our character requirement.
Important: if the primary SESR visa holder, or main applicant for a SESR visa, is sponsored by an accredited sponsor, you are not required to obtain police certificates from countries other than Australia provided you attach a reference from the accredited sponsor confirming that you are of good character and that you have not been convicted of any criminal offences. You must still, however, provide any required Australian police clearances where applicable or when requested to do so.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you owe the Australian government money, you must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 16 years of age or older, you must:
Things you will need to arrange before you apply could include discussing with the work sponsor to include you as a family member in the nomination or undertaking a health assessment. You might also want to get help with your application.
When you apply, you must attach a written letter from the work sponsor (employer) extending their nomination to include you as a family member. This requirement is intended to ensure the primary SESR visa holder's, or main applicant for a SESR visa, employer is aware of all the family members to whom their sponsorship obligations will extend.
Discuss this with the work sponsor before you apply.
You need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until after you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Ask the work sponsor for the Transaction Reference Number (TRN) of the nomination application. You need it to apply for the visa.
Documents you may have to provide could include documents for your identity, character, health and English language skills.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Attach a written letter from the work sponsor (employer) extending their sponsorship obligation to include you as a family member in the nomination.
You must show that you have Functional English.
If you can’t show that you have Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
You do not need to provide health documents. If you have had medical exams, the results are sent to us by your doctor.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16 years. We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police . We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police. For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove a de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years who is applying with you provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant 18 years and over who is applying with you provide:
You need to prove that this person is a family member and/or dependent on you. Provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
You must show that your family member and/or dependant has Functional English.
If you can't show that your family member and/or dependant has Functional English, you will need to pay the second instalment  of the visa application charge when we ask you to.
To nominate someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide accurate information.
We will let you know when we have received your application. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we decide on your application.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return.
Learn about visa expiry.
Learn about travel on a Bridging visas.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them. Check ImmiAccount.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
We might ask you to provide more information. Attach any additional documents we ask you for as soon as possible in ImmiAccount.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. You must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging visa A, Bridging visa B or Bridging visa C for your visa application to be processed.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may have been granted a Bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you will:
If you need to pay a second instalment of the visa application charge we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the instalment after you get the invoice. Do not ask for the invoice.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF).
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Tell us if things change after you submit your application but before we decide on your application.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We must have granted your family member's SESR visa before we can grant you this visa.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the visa application charge if we refuse your application.
You must have:
All people arriving in Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card during your flight.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about visa details and conditions.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
This is a provisional visa. You can live, work and study only in designated regional areas of Australia for up to 5 years.
To see when you must leave, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
You can’t stay longer by extending the visa.
If eligible, you can apply for permanent residence through the Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191) with the primary SESR visa holder.
This visa does not come into effect until 2022.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your length of stay in Australia.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
You can work only in designated regional areas of Australia.
When you work in Australia, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
Learn more about visa details and conditions.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and:
See how to access your superannuation.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.