1. Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)
2. Subsequent entrant
You can stay for as long as your visa is valid.
From AUD1,495.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
See all conditions
Be a partner or dependent of a subclass 482 or 457 visa holder
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
3. About this visa
Usually you apply for your visa at the same time and combined with the visa application of the main applicant. In some instances, this may not be possible. This may occur where the composition of the family changes after:
When this occurs and you want to join the primary applicant on their visa, you must apply separately by submitting a visa application in you own right. This is known as subsequent entrant.
When you submit your visa application for a subsequent entrant, you are required to attach a written letter from the sponsor extending their sponsorship obligation to include you as a family member in the nomination.
This requirement is intended to ensure the primary applicant’s employer is aware of all the family members to whom their sponsorship obligations will extend.
Discuss this matter with the sponsor in the first instance before lodging your subsequent entrant visa application.
4. With this visa, you can
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions refer to your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
5. Cost
The visa application charge for a subsequent entrant application will be calculated based on the stream in which the primary visa was granted (that is, a short-term, medium-term or labour agreement stream).
In cases where a primary visa holder holds a subclass 457 visa, and not a TSS visa, the visa application charge for subsequent entrant applications is calculated as per regulation 1240(2)(a)(ii) – "for any other applicant", with the charges being as follows:
Note: if the sole applicant on a subsequent entrant application is under 18 years of age, they will be charged the base application charge and not the additional applicant charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
6. How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for as long as your visa is valid.
7. Stay longer
If your visa is expiring and the primary visa holder wants stay in Australia to work for their existing employer:
The primary applicant’s employer could also sponsor the main applicant for permanent residence through the:
The primary applicant might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
8. Include other family members
Family members who can apply for this visa are those who are members of the family unit of the primary subclass 457 or TSS visa holder.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
9. Primary visa must have been submitted or decided
Family members cannot be added to a primary visa applicant’s TSS visa application after it has been submitted.
A subsequent entrant application should be submitted if the primary visa applicant has already submitted their visa application and you were not included as a family member in their application and:
10. Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
You might be able to apply even if your substantive visa has a no further stay condition attached to it.
11. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application
12. Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
13. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
14. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to check your visa details and conditions through VEVO.
There is no age requirement for this visa.
If your partner or parent holds a 457 and your application is approved, you will be granted a subclass 482.
The sponsor with the most recent approved nomination in relation to the primary applicant (or visa holder), must agree (or have agreed) in writing to include you as a family member in the nomination
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Health insurance helps limit your financial liability.
You must have adequate health cover for the whole of your intended stay to be granted this visa. Your cover insurance should cover you for medically necessary treatment, including transport. It will be a condition of the visa that you maintain adequate health insurance while you remain in Australia.
See a guide to what we consider adequate health insurance.
See more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreement
You must meet our health requirement. The results of health examinations are generally valid for 12 months.
Important: You should organise your health examinations upfront before lodging a visa application to reduce processing times.
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement.
Important: if you are sponsored by an accredited sponsor, you are not required to obtain police certificates from countries other than Australia provided you attach a reference from your accredited sponsor confirming that you are of good character and that you have not been convicted of any criminal offences. You must still, however, provide any required Australian police clearances where applicable or when requested to do so.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
If you are in Australia at the time of decision, you must have substantially complied with any conditions that apply or applied to your last substantive visa or bridging visa held.
Paying for visa sponsorship refers to asking for, offering, receiving or providing a benefit in return for a sponsorship related event, whether the event occurs or not. You or any secondary applicants must not have, in the past 3 years, engaged in any such conduct. You may still satisfy this criterion if you have engaged in such conduct, and the Minister considers it reasonable to disregard it.
We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.
In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia.
If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.
If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must confirm you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws when you agree to or sign an Australian Values Statement.
Discuss with the sponsor if they will extend the nomination to you. You will need to have health examinations and you might want to get help with your application.
When you apply, you must attach a written letter from the sponsor extending their nomination to include you as a family member. This requirement is intended to ensure the primary applicant’s employer is aware of all the family members to whom their sponsorship obligations will extend.
Discuss this with the sponsor before you apply.
You need a valid passport or other travel document for this visa. If you plan to get a new passport, you should do so before applying for your visa.
If you get a new passport after you have lodged your application, update your passport details using ImmiAccount.
You will need to have health examinations. You can complete them before you apply or you can wait until we tell you to have them.
Find out the examinations you need and how to arrange them before you apply.
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
You will have to provide documents for your identity, character, skills and occupation and health.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
We need proof of your identity. If you cannot prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide proof of change of name, if this applies.
Documents that prove a change of name include:
Attach a written letter from the sponsor extending their sponsorship obligation to include you as a family member in the nomination.
You will need to provide evidence of adequate health insurance for you and any secondary applicants for the duration of your stay in Australia.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreement.
Provide an Australian police certificate if you have spent a total of 12 months or more in Australia in the last 10 years since you turned 16.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
For immigration purposes, Australian police certificates are valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Also provide:
Further information is available at: Character requirements for visas
If you are sponsored by an accredited sponsor, you are not required to obtain police certificates from countries other than Australia provided you attach a reference from your accredited sponsor confirming you are of good character and you have not been convicted of any criminal offences.
We will tell you if you also need to complete and provide the following forms:
Provide:
Provide either:
Documents that prove your de facto relationship include:
For every dependant under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide:
You must get consent for the child to come to Australia from anyone who:
They must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
For every dependant 18 years old or older who is applying with you, provide:
Where you need to prove that a person is dependent on you, provide:
You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide:
Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be:
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the  National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
You apply for this visa online.
Provide accurate information. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
Each family member must have their application charge paid and documents attached to their application.
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
We can’t give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided.
Do not arrange to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that we have granted you the visa.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount .
We might also ask you to provide more information.
We are not obligated to request additional information or documents and can make a decision on your visa application based on the information available at the time.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. You must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging A, Bridging B or Bridging C visa for your visa application to be processed.
If you were in Australia when you applied for this visa, you may have been  granted a Bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the Bridging visa will start. You can stay in Australia on the Bridging visa while we process your new visa application.
Do not ask us to cancel your current visa. If your visa is cancelled, you will:
Learn more about travelling on your visa.
Learn about visa expiry
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF)
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your visa application.
We must have approved your employer’s nomination before we can grant you a TSS visa.
We will let you know our decision about your visa application in writing. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you:
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
You must have a valid:
All people arriving Australia must complete the  Incoming Passenger Card. You will get a card on board.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate
What you can do when you have this visa
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To find out your conditions, see your grant letter or use VEVO.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. Check your conditions in your visa grant letter or VEVO.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes.
You can stay for as long as your primary visa holder's visa is valid and for as long as your own visa remains valid.
To see when you must leave, use VEVO.
If your visa is expiring and the primary applicant wants to maintain their sponsorship with the employer:
The employer may be able to sponsor the main applicant for permanent residence through the:
The main applicant might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Explore visa options for working in Australia.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend your length of stay in Australia.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO
If you have permission to work, you are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements. To see your conditions for work, use VEVO
Find out what to do if you have a child while you hold this visa.
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Check your conditions and the expiry of your current visa in VEVO.
See what you can and must do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use a SmartGate.
You are likely to have some money in a superannuation fund if you worked in Australia and you are:
See how to access your super before and after you leave Australia.
Request your travel records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.