1. Subclass 100
2. Partner (Migrant) visa (Subclass 100)
3. For Applicants
4. For Sponsors
Permanently.
You paid for this visa when you made your combined application for the temporary and permanent partner visas.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The processing time for a permanent Partner visa starts from the date of eligibility. This is 2 years after you applied for the combined temporary, provisional and permanent partner visas.
In addition to what you can do on your subclass 309 visa, you can:
See all conditions
If you are getting help with your visa, make sure you read information on Who can help with your visa application.
Apply
5. With this visa you can
6. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
7. Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
For more information see Check visa details and conditions.
8. Travel on this visa
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant, you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV). This will allow you to travel to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
9. Include family members
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply for the temporary Partner visa (subclass 309). Members of the family unit who apply with you must also be outside Australia
To include a dependent child in your permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) application after we have granted you a subclass 309 visa, your child must first apply for a Dependent child visa (subclass 445).  We can grant your child the subclass 100 visa if they are members of the family unit and meet all other criteria.
You cannot add any family members after we grant the permanent Partner visa (subclass 100).
If you have a dependent child who does not hold a subclass 309 visa, you can add them to your permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) application before we make a decision on your permanent visa application.
Your child must hold a Dependent Child visa (subclass 445) and can be in or outside Australia.
Once your child holds a subclass 445 visa, complete and attach to your ImmiAccount, Form 1002 - Application by a subclass 445 dependent child for a permanent partner visa (279KB PDF).
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
If you have a baby after you have applied for this visa, you will need to let us know. For more information, see You had a baby.
10. Cost
You paid for this visa when you applied for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
You might have to pay other costs for health or police checks.
11. Processing times
The processing time for a permanent Partner visa starts from the date of eligibility. This is 2 years after you applied for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
We update processing times regularly. We assess all applications on a case by case basis. Complex cases may take longer to process. You should use published processing times as a guideline only.
Your application can take longer to process if:
12. Visa label
You will not get a label in your passport. We will digitally link your visa to your passport and create a digital visa record for you.
13. Frequently asked questions
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
You must hold either a Partner (Provisional) visa (subclass 309) or a Dependent Child (subclass 445) visa.
2 years must have passed since you applied for the combined 309 and 100 visa for you to be eligible to be assessed for the permanent visa.
If you were in a long-term relationship or your sponsor held a specific visa before you applied, you might be granted the permanent visa in less than 2 years. We will let you know if this applies to you.
You must continue to be the spouse or de facto partner of the same person who sponsored you for the temporary Partner visa.
You must:
You might still be eligible for the permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies before we grant the permanent visa. For more information see Your relationship has changed.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you. You may still be eligible for the grant of your permanent visa. For more information, see Domestic and family violence and your visa.
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must pay it back or arrange to pay it back.
This may include family members who do not accompany you to Australia.
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
If we granted you a permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) immediately after we granted your temporary Partner visa (subclass 309), you do not have to provide these documents or do anything else. If we did not, you need to provide further documents.
To check which visa you currently hold, use VEVO.
You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf, relating to your visa application.
To appoint someone to receive your correspondence, use Form 956A Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient.
If you need help with your application, you can appoint someone to give you immigration assistance. A person who gives you immigration assistance can:
We treat any correspondence they send as if it came from you.
It is important to provide your own contact details in case we need to contact you directly about your application. The partner visa application form will ask you for your own phone number and email address.
If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be one of the following:
To appoint someone to provide immigration assistance, use Form 956 Appointment of a registered migration agent, legal practitioner or exempt person (308KB PDF).
For more information, see who can help you with your application.
You are eligible for consideration of the permanent Partner visa two years after you apply for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
Once two years have passed since you first applied, you can submit your documents for the permanent stage of your Partner visa. Do not send them before this time.
Make sure you provide all required information with your application. Applications with all required information can be processed faster.
Ensure that all information you provide is accurate. As a visa applicant, you must prove your identity and provide true information with your application.
For more information, see Providing accurate information.
Provide a copy of the pages of your most recent passport. It must show your photo, personal details, signature, passport issue and expiry dates.
To show that you meet our character requirements you may need to provide a current Australian police certificate. You usually need to provide this police certificate for the permanent stage of your Partner visa if you did not attach one with your subclass 309 application.
We may ask you to provide a new Australian police certificate, if your previous certificate has expired. For immigration purposes, police certificates are valid for 12 months from the issue date.
We only accept complete disclosure National Police Certificates issued by the Australian Federal Police. We do not accept standard disclosure certificates or national police certificates issued by Australian state or territory police.
To get an Australian police certificate see National Police Checks.
You also need to provide an overseas police certificate from any country, including your home country, where you spent a total of 12 months or more since the grant of your 309 visa.
To get an overseas police certificate, see Offices outside Australia.
You need to provide evidence you are still in a relationship with your partner.
This evidence must show that:
You can also provide further information in support of your visa application. You can provide:
Attach to your ImmiAccount a Commonwealth statutory declaration form. This form must be completed by your sponsor with information about any of the following:
If you are married, provide your marriage certificate or other evidence that your marriage is valid in Australia.
If you are a de facto partner, provide proof of your de facto relationship.
To show you are still in a relationship with your partner, you can provide the below supporting evidence of your relationship.
Evidence you and your partner share financial matters. This evidence can include:
Evidence you and your partner share domestic matters. This evidence can include:
Evidence that others know about your relationship.
You must provide statements from 2 witnesses who:
Statements from witnesses can be done by completing Form 888 – Supporting statement in relation to a Partner or Prospective Marriage visa application (170KB PDF).
If the witness is an Australian citizen or permanent resident, provide evidence of this such as a passport or birth certificate.
Evidence can also include:
Evidence you are committed to a long-term relationship with each other. This evidence must show that you:
You can also provide the terms of your wills as evidence.
For every family member who currently holds a subclass 309 or 445 visa, provide copies of:
You may need to complete the Notification of Relationship Cessation form in ImmiAccount.
To confirm, check Your relationship has changed.
If you do not have access to ImmiAccount, you can notify us directly using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You might still be eligible for the permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies. All information you provide is confidential.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you. You may still be eligible for the grant of your permanent visa. For more information, see Domestic and family violence and your visa.
Tell us if things change after you apply but before we've made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
For more information, see Change in your situation.
If you are unable to upload the relevant documents to your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Have all documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear enough to read.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
You do not need to have any documents certified.
You are eligible for consideration of the permanent Partner visa two years after you apply for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
Once two years have passed since you first applied, you can submit your documents for the permanent stage of your Partner visa. Do not attach them before this time.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Clearly label your documents.
Keep a copy of your completed application.
You can attach up to 100 documents for each person on your application.
The attachment limit cannot be increased.
If you reach the attachment limit for an applicant, you can attach more documents to other clients on the application.
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
You can track and manage your application using ImmiAccount.
For help managing your application in ImmiAccount, see ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Applying online in ImmiAccount.
To help ensure your application is processed as quickly as possible, attach all necessary supporting documents to your application. The checklist provided on Applying online in ImmiAccount will help in making sure you include all required documents in your application.
If it is within standard processing times do not contact us. We cannot provide any further updates on your application's progress. You can see if we have asked for more information in your ImmiAccount.
To see standard processing times for this visa, see Global processing times.
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might ask you to provide more information.
For more information on attaching documents in ImmiAccount, see Applying online in ImmiAccount.
If you are unable to upload the relevant documents to your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You can add a dependent child  to your application before we make a decision on your permanent visa application. Your child can be in or outside Australia and must:
Once your child holds a subclass 445 visa, complete and attach to your ImmiAccount, Form 1002 - Application by a subclass 445 dependent child for a permanent partner visa.
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
If you have a baby after you have applied for this visa, you will need to let us know. For more information, see You had a baby.
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your documents but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
For more information, see Change in your situation.
If you are unable to upload the relevant documents to your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You may need to complete the Notification of Relationship Cessation form in ImmiAccount.
To confirm, check Your relationship has changed.
If you do not have access to ImmiAccount, you can notify us directly using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You might still be eligible for the permanent visa if your relationship ends or your partner dies. All information you provide is confidential.
If you are experiencing domestic and family violence, we may be able to help you.
You may still be eligible for the grant of your permanent visa. For more information, see Domestic and family violence and your visa.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount , let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Let us know as soon as you can if you have made a mistake on your application.
For more information see After you apply.
If you are unable to update your application in ImmiAccount, you need to contact us using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your permanent Partner visa.
We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of this decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you why we refused the visa and  whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.
This is a permanent visa.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For more information, see Permanent resident.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
For more information see Check visa details and conditions.
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
If the date has passed or will pass before you can travel to Australia, you must ensure that you:
We may then send you a travel facilitation letter to state that you can enter Australia after the first entry arrival date of your visa.

We will not issue a travel facilitation letter unless there is less than 3 months remaining on your first entry arrival date.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV). This will allow you to travel to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, tell them:
If you do not tell them, you might be granted a 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will override your permanent visa and might affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
You cannot add family members to your visa application after we grant the permanent Partner visa (subclass 100).
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family members, explore visa options.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Australian visas are digital. We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
Your visa number is contained in your visa grant letter. Use this number to access your digital visa record in VEVO.
Your digital visa record is also used by:
To get proof of your travel in and out of Australia, request your international movement records.
With this visa you will have full work rights and be protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
With this visa you will be able to study in Australia. To find out what study you may be eligible for see StudyAssist.
You might have to wait to access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. Learn more about newly arrived residents' waiting periods from Services Australia.
Let us know if you get a new passport.
See what to do if you have a new passport.
After a certain time, you may be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on either the day your visa was granted if you were in Australia or the day you first entered Australia on this visa after it was granted.