1. Visitor visa (subclass 600)
2. Frequent traveller stream
The visa can be granted for up to 10 years. Stay up to 3 months each time you enter.
AUD1,435.00
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Visa processing times are based on the age of applications finalised in a given period. Many applications finalised recently had been on-hand for some months while borders were closed.
For more information see visa processing times.
See all conditions
Biometric collection is currently unavailable in the People’s Republic of China. If you cannot provide biometrics outside the People’s Republic of China, you will not be able to apply for the Frequent traveller stream at this time.
You can explore your visa options, including visas that may not require biometrics.
Apply
3. With this visa you can
4. How long you can stay
The visa can be granted for up to 10 years. You can enter Australia as often as you like while the visa is valid but you can only stay:
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
5. Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
You can apply for a new visa if your visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. You might be able to request a waiver of the no further stay condition in limited circumstances.
You must not breach condition 8573, no more than 12 months stay in any 24-month period, or condition 8531, must not remain in Australia beyond visa period, if they are attached to your visa.
You can explore your visa options.
6. Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
7. Cost
The visa costs AUD1,435.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
8. Apply from
You must be in the People's Republic of China when you apply.
You must be outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
9. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
10. Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
11. Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
12. Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
13. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.​​
You must meet our health requirement.
You must meet our character requirement.
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.
You must have enough money to:
You must only intend to:
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.
You must provide biometrics at an Australian Visa Application Centre (AVAC) or Australian Biometric Collection Centre (ABCC) before you apply for the Visitor visa (subclass 600) Frequent traveller stream. You will be given a Visa Lodgement Number (VLN). You need this number to apply.
Biometric collection is currently unavailable in the People’s Republic of China. If you cannot provide biometrics outside the People’s Republic of China, you will not be able to apply for the Frequent traveller stream at this time.
You can explore your visa options, including visas that may not require biometrics.
You don’t have to use a migration agent to apply for any visa. But if you want to, see how to find a registered migration agent.
Anyone can help you fill out forms or give you general help with your application. But you must let us know if you want someone to:
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You must prove your identity to us. If you can't prove your identity:
Provide the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details and passport issue and expiry dates.
Also provide:
Provide as much proof as you can to show you are visiting Australia as a temporary, genuine visitor:
Proof that you have reasons to return home:
Tell us what business visitor activitiesyou plan to do in Australia. You could provide:
Provide any military service record or discharge papers if this applies.
To nominate someone to:
See more about getting help with your application.
If anyone with a legal right to decide where an applicant under 18 lives is not visiting Australia, they must complete either:
Include a document with the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a:
Also provide a birth certificate showing the names of both parents. If you can’t provide a birth certificate, provide one of the following:
Provide:
If the applicant is not staying with a relative or legal guardian, provide Form 1257 - Undertaking declaration (211KB PDF). The person they are staying with must sign the form
If you are a dependant aged 18 or older, also provide:
Have all non-English documents translated into English.
Provide original and translated documents in your application.
Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.
Translators outside Australia don't have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their:
These details must be in English.
Note: You don't need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour.
The scans and photos must be clear and legible.
If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Attach a document only once, even if you are using it to show more than one thing.
Learn more about attaching documents.
Provide accurate information.
See what happens if you can't prove your identity or don't provide true information.
You must apply:
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
Don't make arrangements to travel to Australia until we let you know, in writing, that you have been granted a visa.
We will let you know if you need health examinations.
If you did not send us all documents when you applied, send them via ImmiAccount as soon as you can.
We might also ask you to provide more information.
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) .
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
See more about withdrawing your nomination.
Tell us if things change after you lodge your application but before we have made a decision.
Things you need to let us know about include:
We will let you know our decision on your visa application in writing. We will tell you:
Keep a copy of our decision with you when in Australia.
If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.
Check your travel documents
You must have:
Complete an Incoming Passenger Card
Everyone who arrives in Australia must complete an Incoming Passenger Card.
Using the SmartGate
A SmartGate is an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
Learn more about visa conditions and how they work.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See how to let us know if there is a change in your situation.
This visa lets you:
Volunteer work tourism schemes
You can't work in Australia on a Visitor visa, but you might be able to do volunteer work.
Travel on your visa
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid
See how long you can stay
See when you must leave in VEVO.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. See your options.
Prove you have a visa
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO.
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid
See what to do if your visa has expired or is about to expire.
Departures SmartGate
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGates.
International Movement Record
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.