1. Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189)
2. New Zealand stream
Permanently
N/A
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
3. With this visa you can
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
4. How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date we grant you the visa.
For information about citizenship see Become an Australian citizen (by conferral) Permanent residents or eligible New Zealand citizens.
5. Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
6. Cost
The visa costs AUD4,240 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
The visa application charges are paid in two instalments. The first instalment is 20% of the total visa application charge payable at time of lodgement. The second instalment is the remaining 80% of the visa application charge. The second charge must be paid before we grant you your visa.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
7. Apply from
You must be in Australia and holding a Subclass 444 visa when you apply for the visa.
Any family members included in your application can be in or outside of Australia when you apply. However, if they are in Australia, they must hold a substantive visa or bridging A, B or C visa.
8. Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
9. Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
10. Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
11. Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
See what you can and must do after you apply.
We will let you know when we have received your application.
There are other things you need to know and might need to do.
We don't give updates on applications within the standard processing time.
You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount
If you are in Australia, you don't have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision.
But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. To see if you can return on your current visa, check VEVO
Learn about visa expiry.
If you didn't have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
We might ask for biometrics. We will let you know if you need to provide them.
If you did not attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as you can in ImmiAccount.
We might also ask you to provide more information; however we are not obliged to do so and may make a decision on your application without asking for more documents.
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application.
If you currently hold Special Category visa subclass 444 visa, this visa will remain in effect while you are in Australia.
If you made a valid application for this visa in Australia, you are usually eligible to be granted a bridging visa. If your current visa expires before we decide on your application,  the bridging visa will come into effect if you do not hold another substantive visa. A substantive visa includes the subclass 444.
You can stay in Australia lawfully as the holder of a substantive or bridging visa while we process your visa application. However, as your subclass 189 visa application will not be processed unless you hold a subclass 444 visa, check how your subclass 444 could cease.
Learn more about visa expiry
Pay the second instalment when we send you the invoice.
You can add members of the family unit to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa.
Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement (481KB PDF), pay using ImmiAccount, attach the form and supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If your child is born after you submit your application but before we decide on your visa, you must tell us as soon as possible.
Find out what to do your child is born after you apply.
You must tell us as soon as possible if you made a mistake on your application.
Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers (168KB PDF) and attach it in ImmiAccount.
Let us know if you no longer want someone to:
Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount.
For more information see Who can help you with your application.
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include:
See how to tell us if your situation changes.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide your visa application. We will let you know our decision in writing.
If we grant your visa, we will tell you:
Keep a copy of the decision.
If we refuse your visa, we will tell you:
We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, you must enter Australia before a date that we specify on your visa grant letter.
Check your travel documents.
You must have:
Complete an Incoming Passenger Card
Everyone arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card. You will be given this card onboard.
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Your visa may have conditions. To see your conditions use VEVO.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Things you need to let us know about include:
See what to do if your situation changes
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa subclass (155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
If an immigration officer processes your clearance at our border, we recommend you tell them:
If you don't tell them, you might be granted a subclass 444 visa. Grant of a subclass 444 visa will cease your permanent visa, which will then affect your eligibility for Australian citizenship.
To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.
You are protected by Australian workplace law. See your workplace rights and entitlements.
As an Australian permanent resident, you might be able to sponsor eligible family to come to Australia.
To find a visa for your family member, explore visa options.
After a certain time, you might be eligible for Australian citizenship. Find out more about becoming a citizen.
Check your travel documents
You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia.
Ensure your visa is still valid and allows you to re-enter Australia.
Check the travel component of your visa in VEVO.
See what to do if your visa has visa has expired or is about to expire.
Leaving the airport faster
We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate.
Prove you have been to Australia
Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.