Special Program visa (subclass 416)The Special Program visa (subclass 416) is closed to new applications from 19 November 2016.
You might be eligible to apply for a Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) or Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408).

1. Visa holders
This information is for people who have already been granted a Special Program visa (subclass 416). It explains your rights and obligations.
You can use Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) for free to check your visa details and entitlements.
A Special Program visa (subclass 416) is valid for: the time specified in the special programme agreement between your sponsoring organisation and the department (usually between 3 and 12 months). This period includes any arrival and departure arrangements.
This visa lets you:
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must do only the activities that you listed in your visa application. You will need to lodge a new application for this visa if you want to:
You must maintain adequate arrangements for health insurance while you are in Australia.
Tell us if your circumstances change. This includes a new residential address, a new passport, or a pregnancy, birth or death in your family.
You can use the following forms:
2. Sponsors
This information is for an approved sponsors of people on a Special Program visa (subclass 416).
Sponsors might be approved for up to three years.
You must comply with following sponsorship obligations:
You are responsible for meeting all your obligations, even if you have someone else authorised to act on your behalf, including a migration agent.
In this section:
You must cooperate with inspectors appointed under the Migration Act 1958 (the Act) who are investigating whether:
This obligation:
Cooperating with inspectors can include (but is not limited to):
You must tell us in writing when certain events occur. Send the information by registered post or electronic mail to a specified address and within certain timeframes of the event occurring.
Events where a sponsor must provide information to us include:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the standard business sponsorship is approved or the work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
Where to send a notice of an event or change
You must send details of these events by email or to one of our state or territory offices listed below.
By email (preferred): sponsor.notifications@homeaffairs.gov.au
By registered post:
You must keep records that show your compliance with your sponsorship obligations. All of the records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person. Records that must be kept, in addition to records that must be kept under other Australian Government, and state or territory laws, include the following:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
The obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must keep records that show your compliance with your sponsorship obligations. All of the records must be kept in a reproducible format and some must be capable of verification by an independent person. Records that must be kept, in addition to records that must be kept under other Australian Government, and state or territory laws, include the following:
This obligation starts on the day the sponsorship is approved.
The obligation ends two years after both of the following:
You do not need to keep any records for more than five years.
You must provide records or information, if they are requested by a departmental officer that goes to determining whether:
We may ask you in writing to provide records or information which relate to your sponsorship obligations, and any other matters that relate to your sponsorship of visa holders. You must provide the records or information requested if it is a record or information that:
This obligation starts to apply on the day the sponsorship is approved or work agreement commences.
This obligation ends two years after:
You must not take any action or seek to take any action that would result in the transfer or charging of costs (including migration agent costs) to another person, such as a sponsored visa holder or their sponsored family members this includes costs that relate to:
This obligation:
Sponsors are also required to pay certain costs associated with becoming a sponsor and not pass these costs, in any form, onto another person. These include:
In the event a primary sponsored person (or any of their sponsored family members) becomes an unlawful non-citizen, you may be required to pay the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in locating and/or removing the primary or secondary sponsored persons from Australia.
You may be liable to pay the Commonwealth the difference between the actual costs incurred by the Commonwealth (up to a maximum of AUD10,000) less any amount which may have already been paid under the obligation to pay travel costs to enable sponsored persons to leave Australia (see ‘Obligation to pay travel costs’).
This obligation starts on the day the person you sponsored becomes an unlawful non-citizen.
It ends five years after they leave Australia. This means that the Department of Home Affairs might, up to five years after the person you have sponsored has left Australia, give you a letter requiring payment of the costs that the Commonwealth paid to locate and remove the person you sponsored prior to their departure from Australia.
If you sponsor someone to work for you as a volunteer without a salary or wages or sponsor someone to participate in a professional development program, you must secure an offer of a reasonable standard of accommodation in Australia for them and any family they bring with them.
If the accommodation becomes unavailable, you must find alternative accommodation for them.
A ‘reasonable standard of accommodation’ means that the accommodation must:
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is earliest):
You must pay reasonable and necessary travel costs to enable the sponsored person and their sponsored family members to leave Australia. They must ask you in writing for you to pay the costs. We can also make a written request on their behalf.
The costs will be considered reasonable and necessary if they include all of the following:
Travel costs must be paid within 30 days of receiving the request.
You will only be required to pay return travel costs once. If a sponsored person returns to Australia (whilst holding the visa for which you sponsored them) after you have paid their return travel costs, you will not be required to pay their return travel costs again.
This obligation starts on the day:
This obligation ends on the day (whichever is the earliest):
You must comply with your obligations as a sponsor. We monitor your compliance with the sponsorship obligations and whether your visa holders are upholding their visa conditions.
We monitor you while you are a sponsor and for up to five years after you cease being a sponsor. We do this routinely and in response to information provided to us, and in three main ways:
Your compliance with the sponsorship obligations might be investigated by Immigration inspectors who have investigative powers under the Migration Act 1958. Failure to cooperate with inspectors is a breach of the sponsorship obligations.
If you do not meet your obligations, we could take one or more of the following actions:
Administrative
Enforceable undertaking
You could be invited to enter into an enforceable undertaking.  Enforceable undertakings require you to promise, in writing, to undertake to complete certain actions to demonstrate that the failures have been rectified and won’t happen again.
Civil
Other circumstances in which administrative action might be taken
In addition, you could also have sanctions imposed if: