Subclass (050)
Bridging visa E (BVE)
This visa lets you stay lawfully in Australia while you make arrangements to leave, finalise your immigration matter or wait for an immigration decision.








Types of bridging visas
You can stay in Australia lawfully while you finalise your immigration matter or make arrangements to leave Australia.
There are two types of BVEs:
Bridging (General) visa (subclass 050) - generally if you are currently unlawful, the holder of a BVE 050 or the holder of a BVD 041
Bridging (Protection Visa Applicant) visa (subclass 051) - used in limited situations to allow certain eligible non-citizens (as specified by the Regulations) to remain lawfully in Australia while their protection visa application is being finalised
With this visa you can
You can stay in Australia if: 
you are making arrangements to leave Australia
you are applying for a substantive visa
you are seeking merits or judicial review of a visa decision or citizenship decision
you are seeking ministerial intervention
You must be an unlawful non-citizen, the holder of a BVE (subclass 050) or the holder of a Bridging D visa (BVD) (subclass 041) when you apply for this visa.
Working in Australia while you hold a BVE
Your grant letter will tell you if you are allowed to work. If you work when you are not allowed to, we can cancel your BVE and detain you. You could also be removed from Australia.
If you are not allowed to work, there are only some situations where you might be able to apply for a new BVE that does allow you to work. For example, you might be in financial hardship if you cannot pay for the reasonable cost of your living expenses.
We will assess your situation to see if you meet the requirements. If you do not meet the requirements we will not grant you a new BVE that allows you to work.
There are different requirements, depending on whether you have applied for judicial review or ministerial intervention. There are also special rules for when protection visa applicants are allowed to work.
How long you can stay
This visa is valid until a specified date, or for a particular time period, or a specified event happens.
Your BVE will also end if:
you leave Australia
we grant you a substantive visa
your BVE is cancelled
Stay longer
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. If you are unable depart Australia or resolve your immigration matter by a specified time or event, you will need to apply for a new BVE or explore other visa options.
Explore your visa options.
Cost
There is no fee for a BVE application.
Apply from
You and anyone included in your application must be in Australia when the BVE application is lodged and  in order to be granted the BVE, you and anyone else included in your application will need to be in Australia when the decision is made.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Your obligations
You and anyone included in your application must:
comply with all Australian laws
be in Australia when the application is lodged and granted
Travel
A BVE allows you to stay in Australia lawfully for a short time. It will end immediately if you leave Australia. You will not be able to return unless you have another substantive visa.
A substantive visa is any visa that is not a bridging visa or a criminal justice visa or an enforcement visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
