Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Business Innovation Extension stream
This provisional visa lets holders of a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream extend their stay in Australia.








With this visa, you can
operate a new or existing business in Australia
travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 6, 7 or 8 years after the date of grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (Subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream
bring eligible members of your family with you
apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Business Innovation stream if certain requirements are met
How long you can stay
The date you were invited to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream determines how long you can stay in Australia.
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held at the time of application.
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 6 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream that you held at the time of application.
If COVID 19 concessions apply
Travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 8 years after the date of the grant of the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream.
This is a provisional visa. The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Business Innovation stream if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add your dependent child to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD1,170.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you:
additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD590.00
additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD295.00
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must pay an extra charge unless the applicant has already paid this charge for a previous subclass 188 visa application. This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
main applicant: AUD9,795
family members: AUD4,890
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
25% of applications: 9 Months
50% of applications: 12 Months
75% of applications: 15 Months
90% of applications: 18 Months
There are no standard processing times available for this stream.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not complete the form correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
You must also meet certain business obligations and obey Australian workplace laws.
Meet your business obligations
While the holder of this visa, you must:
have a substantial ownership stake in a business in Australia
genuinely have a realistic commitment to take part in its day-to-day management, at a senior level
In the business, you must do at least one of these things:
add to commercial activity and competitiveness within the Australian economy
develop business links with international markets
employ people in Australia
export Australian goods
introduce new or improved technology, or
produce goods or services that Australia would otherwise import
Follow Australian workplace laws
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
You must meet workplace laws when operating your business in Australia. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
pay rates
shift calculations
leave arrangements and notice
redundancy entitlements
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
