Subclass 173
Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa
This temporary visa lets a parent of a settled Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen stay temporarily in Australia.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
live in Australia for up to 2 years
work and study in Australia (you will not receive government support)
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
apply for a permanent Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143)
Apply for a Contributory Parent (subclass 143) visa
You can spread the cost of the permanent visa over a number of years by applying in 2 steps:
first, apply for the temporary Contributory Parent (Temporary) (subclass 173) visa, then
apply for the permanent Contributory Parent (subclass 143) visa
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 2 years.
The visa period starts on the date you enter Australia after you are granted the visa.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want within two years.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending or reapplying for this visa. You can apply for a different visa.
Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.  
You will be required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, when you fill out the application form.
If you have a partner, include their details in your application even if they are not applying for the visa with you.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
This visa costs AUD32,430. There is an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to. See more about visa fees and charges.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.
If you apply in Australia, any family members who apply with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply. If you apply outside Australia, any family members who apply with you must also be outside Australia when you apply.
If you apply for this visa in Australia while on a temporary visa with a no further stay condition, your application will be invalid, unless you apply for a waiver of this condition.
Processing times
The demand for these visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all of the documents we need or we need more information from you and/or
your information takes a long time to verify.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Assessment
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages:
Check eligibility and either add the application to the queue or refuse it.
Continue assessing the application when a place becomes available and make a decision.
Do not arrange to stay permanently in Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Consider another visa
Other Parent visas available are:
Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143). This is a permanent visa and costs more
Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173), then a permanent Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143). This is a 2-step visa process and costs more than the subclass 103 visa. It also costs more than applying directly for the Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143), but the cost is spread across the 2 visas over a longer period and
Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 870). This is a temporary visa allowing parents to visit their children in Australia for up to three or five years at a time and a cumulative maximum 10 year period.
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
Assessment
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages.
Check eligibility and either add the application to the queue or refuse it.
Continue assessing the application when a place becomes available and make a decision.
Don't arrange to move to Australia until we grant the visa. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the date specified in your grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
