(Subclass 445)
Dependent Child visa
This visa allows a child to stay in Australia temporarily while we process their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa the child can
move to or stay in Australia until we decide on their parent's permanent Partner visa application
travel to and from Australia
work and study in Australia
Once the child has been granted this visa, they must apply to be added to their parent's permanent Partner visa application.  
When an application to add the child to their parent's permanent Partner visa application has been submitted, the child can enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare.
How long the child can stay
This is a temporary visa. It starts on the date we grant the visa.
The child can stay until we decide their parent's permanent Partner visa application or their parent withdraws their permanent Partner visa application.
Stay longer
The child can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options. 
Include other children
Each of the child's siblings must apply for this visa separately.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each dependent child who applies for the visa with the main applicant.
There might also be other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what the visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child can be in or outside Australia when the visa application is submitted.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application can take longer to process if:
it is not filled in correctly
it does not include all the documents we need, or we need more information
it takes us time to verify the information
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge isn't paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
The child's obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and any of their family members who are granted the visa must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Once the child has been granted this visa, they must apply to be added to their parent's permanent Partner visa application.
Travel
The child can travel to and from Australia as often as they wish while the visa is valid.
Time spent outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
