Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Domestic Work for Executives
This visa lets you come to Australia to do full-time domestic work in the household of certain senior foreign executives. You and members of your family unit can stay here for up to 2 years.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
work full-time as a domestic worker in the household of certain senior foreign executives
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include members of the family unit in your visa application
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years. 
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If you apply in Australia, the visa starts the day we grant it. If you apply outside Australia, the visa stay period starts the day you enter Australia on the visa.
If we grant the visa, we will let you know how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. But you could apply for a further 408 Domestic Worker visa if the foreign executive is remaining in Australia for more than 2 years.
Explore your visa options
Include family
You can:
include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, or
add family members to your application at any time before we make a decision
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements. 
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will let you know if this is the case.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
If your sponsor, supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must do one of the following:
if eligible, apply for a new visa
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor/supporter, or before your visa expires if that happens sooner
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.
