Subclass 601
Electronic Travel Authority
Visit Australia as often as you wish in a 12-month period. Stay up to 3 months each time you enter Australia.








With this visa you can
Travel to Australia:
as a tourist - for example, to cruise or have a holiday 
to visit family or friends
as a business visitor
You can study or train for up to 3 months in total on this visa. If your main reason for travelling to Australia is to study, you should apply for a student visa.
Note: You should apply for a Visitor (subclass 600) visa and complete the relevant health checks if you are seeking to:
train at a childcare centre
study to be a doctor, dentist, nurse or paramedic
enter health care or hospital environments.
Cruise
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise starting from Australia, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia - that is, we do not consider you have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
Business visitor
As a business visitor, you can:
make general business or employment enquiries
investigate, negotiate, enter into or review a business contract
conduct activities as part of an official government visit
take part in a conference, trade fair or seminar. The organisers can't pay you to take part.
You can't:
work for or provide services to a business or organisation based in Australia
sell goods or services directly to the public
The ETA is not a work visa. You cannot undertake paid work for an Australian employer. If you work or intend to work in Australia on an ETA, your ETA may be cancelled. You may be removed or refused entry to Australia.
To work in Australia, you must hold a visa that permits you to work. See Working in Australia.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. It is valid for travel to Australia for either 12 months, or for the period your passport is valid, whichever is shorter.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while it is valid. You can remain in Australia for 3 months after each entry.
If you stay in Australia for long periods or make frequent visits to Australia, we may ask you about your travel purpose next time you enter Australia. If you are found not to be a genuine visitor, your ETA may be cancelled.
If you want to stay longer than 3 months at a time, you need to apply for a different visa that suits your circumstances.
The 12 month visa period starts on the date it is granted unless you hold another substantive visa that is already in effect. 
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
To find out about other visas, explore your visa options.
If you remain in Australia after your ETA ceases, and do not hold another visa to remain, you will become an unlawful non-citizen and you may be removed from Australia.
Including family
You can't include family members, such as children or your spouse, in your application. Each family member, including those listed on your passport, must submit a separate application.
Cost
There is no Visa Application Charge (VAC) however there is an application service fee of AUD20 to use the Australian ETA app.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply for the ETA and outside Australia when the visa is granted.
Processing times
In most cases, you will be notified of the result of your ETA application immediately.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't answer the questions in the ETA app correctly
we need more information from you
your information is hard to verify.
If you have a criminal conviction in any country, we will need more information from you. You should apply for a Visitor visa (subclass 600) and provide evidence about your criminal convictions.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements. 
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Your ETA is attached to your current passport. If your current passport expires or you get a new passport:
your ETA will cease
you must apply for a new ETA
Other visas
Maritime Crew visa or Special Purpose visa
If you hold a Maritime Crew visa or a Special Purpose visa and you are granted an ETA, you will hold both visas concurrently. When you arrive in Australia, you will enter on both visas. You can stay in Australia for the longer of the 2 visa periods.
If the longer period exceeds 3 months the ETA will cease, but you can remain for the duration of the other visa's stay period.
Any other substantive visa
If you hold any other substantive visa and an ETA when you arrive in Australia, you will enter Australia on your other substantive visa, not your ETA. Your ETA will come into effect when the other visa ceases.
However, the 3-month ETA stay period still begins when you enter Australia.
Check your other substantive visa is valid for more than 3 months if you want to stay in Australia longer than the 3-month ETA stay period.
