Temporary work (International relations) visa (subclass 403)
Foreign Government Agency stream
This visa stream lets you come to Australia for specific activities. You could work in Australia as a representative of a foreign government agency, or employed by a foreign government as a foreign language teacher in an Australian school.








With this visa, you can
work as a representative of a foreign government agency that does not enjoy official status in Australia (provided that you would not, as a representative of that agency, enjoy official status in Australia, e.g. diplomatic or consular accreditation)
A foreign government agency includes:
an organisation that is operating in Australia and is conducted under the official authority of a foreign national government (including foreign tourist and media bureaus, trade offices and other foreign government entities) and
an organisation that is operating in Australia and that is conducted under the official authority of an international organisation recognised by Australia
work as a foreign language teacher employed by a foreign government in an Australian school
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include Members of the family unit in your application
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay until the time we specify in your visa grant notice, which may be up to 4 years (unless your employer approves a shorter period).
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant the visa (if you are in Australia at the time of grant) or on the day you first time enter Australia (if you were outside Australia when we granted it).
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can apply to stay longer in Australia under the Foreign Government Agency stream if:
you continue to be supported by a foreign government agency, or
you continue to work as a foreign language teacher in an Australian school; and
your continued employment will benefit Australia
Include family
You can include Members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The visa costs AUD365.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out how much this visa costs, use the  Visa pricing estimator . The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
You might not need to pay the visa application charge if:
you hold a valid diplomatic, official or service passport and have a Third Person Note from your government
You must provide evidence to show that your application is exempt from the visa application charge.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
Your obligations
If we granted you the visa, you and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
