Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Frequent traveller stream
This visa stream is for citizens of the People's Republic of China who travel often to Australia for business or personal reasons.








With this visa you can
visit family or friends
be here as a tourist, for a cruise or a holiday
undertake business visitor activities
How long you can stay
The visa can be granted for up to 10 years. You can enter Australia as often as you like while the visa is valid but you can only stay:
up to 3 months each time you enter
for 12 months in total in any 24-month period
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
You can apply for a new visa if your visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. You might be able to request a waiver of the no further stay condition in limited circumstances.
You must not breach condition 8573, no more than 12 months stay in any 24-month period, or condition 8531, must not remain in Australia beyond visa period, if they are attached to your visa.
You can explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD1,435.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be in the People's Republic of China when you apply.
You must be outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
