Subclass 858
Global Talent visa
This is a permanent visa for people who have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievement in an eligible field.








Visa pathways
The Global Talent visa is for the brightest and best global talent. It comprises of two visa pathways:
Global Talent pathway
Distinguished Talent pathway.
The Global Talent pathway provides priority processing for highly skilled applicants who:
have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievements within the Minister's defined sectors
currently earn, or are likely to earn at the Fair Work High Income Threshold.
Before applying for the Global Talent pathway, you should submit an Expression of Interest against relevant requirements for priority processing. If successful, you will receive a unique reference and identifier to use when making a Global Talent (subclass 858) visa application.
More information on the Global Talent pathway, including Expression of Interest requirements and submission process, can be found at EOI requirements.
The Distinguished Talent pathway is for extremely talented applicants who have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievements working in sectors other than a Minister's defined sector for either a profession, sport, the arts, or academia and research. An expression of Interest is not required for this pathway.
Applicants can apply for the Global Talent pathway and the Distinguished Talent pathway online via ImmiAccount.
With this visa you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, apply for Australian citizenship
Newly arrived residents may need to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
Apply from
You must either be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance, when you apply and when this visa is decided. 
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia.
Include family
You may include members of the family unit when you apply. You can also add members of your family to your application at any time before a decision is made on your application.
If you are under 18 years old, you can only include your parents and members of the family unit of that parent.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements regardless of whether they are accompanying you to Australia.
For more information on health requirements, refer to Meeting our health requirement.
For more information on character requirements, refer to Character requirements for visas.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application please tell us the reason why.
Cost
For the cost of the visa for the main applicant, refer to Fees and charges for visas.
There is an extra charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
You may have to pay an extra fee for any applicant aged 18 years or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. We will tell you when to pay the second instalment. For more information on the second installment charge, refer to Fees and charges for visas.
To work out what your visa will cost, you can use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs, such as health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
For information on the cost of health checks, refer to Your health examinations.
For information on the cost of biometrics, refer to biometrics.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis. Actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have received a successful Expression of Interest outcome to apply for this visa under the Global Talent pathway
whether you have lodged an application for the Distinguished Talent pathway
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all required supporting documents
how quickly you respond to requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive extra information from external agencies, in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
how many places are available in the migration program
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will contribute to Australia in your area of expertise.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
