Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191)
Hong Kong stream
This visa lets eligible Hong Kong or British National (Overseas) passport holders who have demonstrated commitment to Australia, live and work in Australia permanently.








With this visa you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, apply for Australian citizenship.
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
How long can you stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia.
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you lodge your visa application.
add them after you lodge your application but before we decide on your visa. 
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members not coming to Australia may also need to meet health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us why. As an example, they may already hold Australian citizenship or be a permanent resident.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,765.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You may have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,885.00.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You may also have to pay for health checks, police certificates and biometrics, if required.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. You cannot be in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to requests for more information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive information from external agencies, particularly for health, character, and national security requirements
how many places are available in the migration program.
Your obligations
You and your family must follow Australian laws.
Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return Visa (RRV) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
