Subclass 461
New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa
This visa is for a person who is not a New Zealand citizen but is a member of a family unit of a New Zealand citizen. It lets you live and work in Australia for five years.








With this visa you can
live, work and study in Australia for 5 years from the date your visa is granted
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want during the 5 year period
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want during the 5 year period.
The visa will be in effect from the date your visa is granted.
Include family
You can combine your application with other members of the family unit when you apply. 
Members of the family unit who apply for the visa must meet health and character requirements.
You can't add family members to a Subclass 461 visa application after it is lodged.
While applicants can include members of their familyunit when they lodge the application, all applicants are assessed individually.
Newborn children
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply. 
Note: a child born to a New Zealand citizen parent in Australia may not be eligible for New Zealand citizenship by descent. For information about New Zealand citizenship, see the New Zealand government website.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia after your visa ceases unless you are the holder of another visa. 
You can apply for a further Subclass 461 visa if you meet the eligibility requirements.
Cost
The below are the costs to make a valid application for a Subclass 461 visa:
AUD430.00 for the main applicant.
AUD220.00 for members of the family unit over 18 years of age and AUD105.00 for those under 18 who make a combined application with the main applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs such as for health examinations, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa application might cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance.
See the Step-by-Step section for information on how to apply.
See Visa outcome for information on where you must be if we grant you the visa.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill the form out correctly
you do not include all the documents or if more information is requested from you
it takes us longer than usual to verify your information
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct cost. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application without processing it.
Your obligations
You and members of your family unit must meet all visa conditions that apply and follow all Australian laws.
See the conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want during the 5 years you may hold your visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a visa label in your passport.
