Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
Pacific Australia Labour Mobility stream
This visa stream lets you come to Australia to participate in the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
work in Australia for a temporary activities sponsor, that is approved by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (DEWR) as a Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme employer
work under the PALM scheme for up to:
9 months if you are employed under a short-term work contract
4 years if you are employed under a long-term work contract
travel to and from Australia as many times as you need while holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and a valid visa.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
The visa starts:
on the day you first enter Australia, if you are outside Australia when we grant the visa or
on the date we grant the visa, if you are in Australia when we grant the visa.
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay and any conditions of your stay.
The visa will be valid until a specified date. This may be up to 4 years. You must return home when your work contract ends, regardless of the length of your visa.
The visa has multiple entry.
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you need. You must be holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and your visa must be valid.
Short-term PALM scheme workers
You cannot spend more than 9 months in Australia if you have a short-term work contract under the PALM scheme.
While we may grant your visa for 9 months, you must return home when your work contract ends. This is regardless of the length of the visa. You then must spend at least 3 months outside Australia before you can return under another PALM scheme work contract.
Short-term workers who are granted a multi-year visa (up to 4 years) will have a condition on their visa which means they must return home after each short-term work contract.
Long-term PALM scheme workers
You cannot spend more than 4 years in Australia if you have a long-term work contract.
Your visa stay period will generally be the same as the length of your work contract with your PALM scheme employer.
After each long-term work contract you must spend at least 6 months outside Australia before you can return under another PALM scheme work contract.
For more information see the PALM scheme.
Stay longer
Under the PALM scheme Approved Employer Guidelines, you may be able to stay longer to keep working in the PALM scheme if you are a:
short-term PALM scheme worker and have been offered a long-term PALM scheme work contract or
long-term PALM scheme worker and have been offered a contract extension and your total time in Australia will be less than 4 years.
You can’t stay longer by extending your visa. You must apply for a new PALM stream visa.
To be eligible to apply for a PALM stream visa in Australia you must:
hold a Subclass 403 visa in the PALM, Seasonal Worker Program (SWP), or Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS) streams or
have held a Subclass 403 visa in the PALM, SWP, or PLS streams in the last 28 days and
be sponsored by a temporary activities sponsor, that is approved by DEWR as a PALM scheme employer
have a PALM scheme recruitment approval letter from your sponsor that includes the PALM endorsement number
apply online.
Employment transfers
After the grant of a PALM stream visa, you may only change employment if DEWR approves the change.
Include family
The PALM scheme family accompaniment pilot allows selected PALM scheme workers on long-term contracts of between one and four years to bring their family to Australia.
Learn more about the pilot, see Family accompaniment pilot - for workers | PALM scheme
Families selected to participate in the pilot must apply as subsequent entrants to the PALM scheme worker’s Temporary Work (International Relations) (subclass 403) PALM stream visa.
Family members applying for this visa must:
give your family accompaniment selection notification letter
give evidence that you are a member of the family unit of the primary subclass 403 PALM stream or PLS stream visa holder
meet our health and character requirements
pay the visa application charge
Selected PALM scheme workers will get more information with their family accompaniment selection notification letter about how their family can apply for the Temporary Work (International Relations) (subclass 403) visa.
Short-term PALM scheme workers cannot bring their family to Australia on this visa.
Cost
The visa costs:
AUD345.00 for the main applicant
AUD335.00 for each additional applicant over 18 years
AUD80.00 for each additional applicant under 18 years.
You may also have to pay other costs for health checks and police certificates.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide your visa application, unless you:
hold a Subclass 403 visa in the PALM, SWP, or PLS streams or
last held a Subclass 403 visa in the PALM, SWP, or PLS streams in the last 28 days.
If you are in Australia, you can only apply for this visa if you are a:
SWP or PALM stream visa holder with a short-term work contract and you have been offered a long-term work contract under the PALM scheme
PLS or PALM stream visa holder with a long-term work contractand you have been offered a contract extension, and your total time in Australia will be less than 4 years.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case.
Your obligations
While you hold a PALM stream visa you must:
continue to be employed by your temporary activities sponsor or another employer supported under an arrangement with DEWR
only work in the position and industry you were granted the visa for
not work for yourself, or change employers, unless supported under an arrangement with DEWR
comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
To view your visa details download the My VEVO app.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you need. You must be holding a work contract under the PALM scheme and your visa must be valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will electronically link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If you get a new passport while you hold this visa you must tell the Department using your ImmiAccount.
