Subclass 309
Partner (Provisional) visa
This visa lets the de facto partner or spouse of an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen live in Australia temporarily. Getting this visa is the first step towards a permanent Partner visa (subclass 100).
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
Live, work and study
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want
attend free English language classes provided by the Adult Migrant English Program if you are eligible
apply for access to Australia’s public health care scheme, Medicare.
How long you can stay
You can stay in Australia until your permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) application is finalised or you withdraw your application.
For information on processing times for the permanent stage see Partner (Migrant) visa (subclass 100).
Include family members
You can include members of the family unit in your application:
when you lodge your visa application, or
add a dependent child after you lodge your application but before we decide on your temporary visa.
Family members who apply with you must:
be members of the family unit
meet our health requirement
meet our character requirement
be outside Australia.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirement.
Newborn children
For information on what to do if your child is born after you apply see You had a baby.
Cost
The costs below cover this Temporary visa and the Permanent Partner visa (subclass 100).
AUD9,095.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out how much your visa will cost, including adding additional family members, use the Visa pricing estimator.
The estimator does not take into account the costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply for this visa
You must be outside Australia when you apply for this visa. Family who apply with you must also be outside Australia.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant, you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
Adequate health insurance
Depending on your circumstances, you may be eligible to access Australia’s public health care system, Medicare, while you await a decision on your visa application. For more information see Medicare.
If you are not eligible for Medicare, we recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. Otherwise, you will be personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability. For more information, see Adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal health care agreement.
Private health insurance
You can get Australian residents' private health insurance if you have:
an interim (blue) Medicare card
a full (green) Medicare card.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while you hold this visa.
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant, you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Frequently asked questions
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
