Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)
Post-Vocational Education Work stream
This visa is for international students who have recently graduated with qualifications that are relevant to specific occupations Australia needs. It lets you live, study and work in Australia temporarily.








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia for 18 months
travel, work or study in Australia during your stay.
You must find your own employment if we grant this visa.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 18 months.
Hong Kong and British National Overseas passport holders may stay up to 5 years.
You can travel in and out of Australia while your visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant your visa.
Stay longer
We cannot extend this visa.
You may be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
Current and future Temporary Graduate visa holders from Hong Kong may have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, if they are in Australia.
Family members who apply for this visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can add your children to the application until we decide on your application. You can't add any other member of the family unit to your application during that period.
If a family member wants to be added to your visa after we have granted it, they can apply as a subsequent entrant from in or outside Australia (including Replacement stream visa holders). See when you have this visa.
Cost
The visa costs AUD1,945.00 for the primary visa applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Subsequent entrants must pay the full Visa Application Charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
The Temporary Graduate visa is exempt from the Subsequent Temporary Application Charge. 
Apply from
You can be in Australia (but not in immigration clearance) when you apply for this visa. 
Subsequent entrants can be in or outside Australia when they apply.
All applicants can be in or outside Australia at the time of decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for your visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct Visa Application Charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while your visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend your visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
