Business Innovation and Investment (provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Premium Investor stream
This provisional visa is for people who are nominated by Austrade and who invest at least AUD15 million in Australian investments and/or philanthropic contributions.








With this visa, you can
carry out investment activity in Australia
stay in Australia for 4 years and 3 months
bring eligible members of your family with you
apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for 4 years and 3 months.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant it.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Explore your visa options
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream if certain requirements are met.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add dependent children to your application at any time before we decide your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted this visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements and might have to meet our health requirements.
 
Cost
This visa costs AUD9,455.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you:
family members over 18 years old: AUD4,725.00
family members under 18 years old: AUD2,365.00
You must pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English.This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa. The second instalment charges are:
main applicant: AUD9,795
family members: AUD4,890
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not complete the application form correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws. 
If you apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent visa (subclass 888) Premisum Investor stream, you must genuinely have a realistic commitment to maintain business and investment activity.  
You must also hold your investment of AUD15 million for a minimum of 12 months and follow Australian workplace laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Follow Australian workplace laws
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Sevices Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
