Working Holiday visa (subclass 417)
Second Working Holiday visa
This visa lets people 18 to 30 years old (or 35 years old for some countries) who currently hold, or who have held, a Working Holiday visa, have a second working holiday in Australia.









With this visa, you can
do short-term work in Australia to help pay for your holiday
study for up to 4 months
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want
do 6 months of specified work to become eligible for a third Working Holiday visa.
Work
You can do any kind of work on this visa.
Usually, you can only work for the same employer for 6 months. 
Note: The 6 month work limitation resets when you are granted a second subclass 417 visa. This means you can work another 6 months for someone you worked for on your first subclass 417 visa.
If the main purpose of your stay is to work, consider a work visa.
Study
You can study for up to 4 months (17 weeks).
If the main purpose of your stay is to study, consider a Student visa.
How long you can stay
This depends on your circumstances when we grant the visa. Your grant notification will tell you how long you can stay in Australia and you can check your visa details and conditions using VEVO.
You are in Australia on your first Working Holiday (subclass 417) visa or a bridging visa
The bridging visa must be the one you were granted after your first subclass 417 visa expired.
You can stay in Australia for up to 12 months from the date your first Working Holiday (subclass 417) visa expired or would have expired.
Time spent outside Australia after your second visa starts does not extend the visa.
You are in Australia on a different visa
You can stay in Australia for 12 months from the date we grant the visa.
Time spent outside Australia after your second visa starts does not extend the visa.
You are outside Australia
You can stay in Australia for 12 months from the date you enter Australia.
You must enter Australia within 12 months of the date we grant the visa. We will not extend or defer this timeframe.
Your Working Holiday visa starts on the date you enter or transit through Australia even if you hold any other temporary visa including:
a Special Purpose visa
an Electronic Travel Authority
a Crew Travel Authority
a Maritime Crew visa
It is important that you only apply for a Working Holiday visa once you are ready to enter Australia on that visa. Once we grant your Working Holiday visa and you travel to Australia and are immigration cleared at the border, the 12-month visa period of stay will automatically start upon entry, regardless of the purpose of your visit.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You could apply for a third Working Holiday visa if you are eligible.
To stay longer in Australia, explore your visa options.
Stay longer on a visitor visa
Generally, we don't grant a visitor visa after you have been in Australia on a Working Holiday visa.
If you want to apply for a Visitor visa to stay longer in Australia and the Visitor visa would result in you staying longer than 12 consecutive months in Australia, you must show there are exceptional circumstances.
For this visa, exceptional circumstances might be that a close family member in Australia has died or is seriously ill and you are required to stay in Australia to provide assistance or support.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application.
You can't be accompanied by dependent children while you are in Australia on this visa.
Cost
AUD650.00
You might also have to pay for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa.You must select your current location at the time you apply.
If you apply when you are in Australia, you must be in Australia when we grant your visa.
If you apply when you are outside Australia, you must be outside Australia when we grant your visa.
You must correctly specify your current location when applying. If you select the wrong location you will need to amend the information. This may delay processing of your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See the conditions for this visa.
Tax
When you work in Australia on this visa, you must pay taxes.
Superannuation
Australia has compulsory superannuation - a retirement savings scheme. Your employer must pay superannuation into your superannuation fund if you earn over a certain amount.
When you leave Australia, you can access your superannuation.
Learn more about compulsory superannuation.
Health insurance
We strongly recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is in effect.
The time you spend outside Australia after your visa commences does not extend the visa period of stay in Australia.
Visa record
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
