Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)
Second Post-Higher Education Work stream
This visa is for Temporary Graduates holding a Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work or Replacement visa with a degree from an Australian institution located in a regional area. It lets you live, work and study in Australia temporarily.








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia for between 1 to 2 years after you have finished your studies, depending on where you studied, lived and your degree
travel, work or study in Australia during your stay.
You must find your own employment while on this visa.
How long can you stay
This is a temporary visa. The length of your stay in Australia will depend on:
where you studied and graduated from
what degree you completed as the holder of a Student visa
where you live as the holder of your Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work, or Replacement stream.
If you:
studied and live in Category 2 area (1 year)
studied and live in Category 3 area (2 years)
See Designated regional areas.
Stay longer
Current and future Temporary Graduate visa holders from Hong Kong may have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, if they are in Australia.
Family members who apply for this visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can add your children to the application until we decide on your application. You can't add any other member of the family unit to your application during that period.
If a family member wants to be added to your visa after we have granted it, they can apply as a subsequent entrant from inside or outside Australia. See when you have this visa.
Cost
The visa costs AUD765.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you and subsequent entrants must pay the full Visa Application Charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks or police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
The Temporary Graduate visa is exempt from the Subsequent Temporary Application Charge.
Apply
You can be in Australia (but not in immigration clearance) when you apply for this visa.
Subsequent entrants can be in or outside Australia when they apply.
All applicants can be in or outside Australia at the time of decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for your visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct Visa Application Charge. We will notify you if this is the case and, if necessary, return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while your visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend your visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
