Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Significant Investor stream
This provisional visa is for people who invest at least AUD5 million in Australian investments that meet certain requirements and maintain investment activity in Australia.








With this visa, you can
carry out investment activity in Australia
stay in Australia for up to 5 years
bring eligible members of your family with you
apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years if you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021.
If you applied after 1 July 2015, and were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months.
If you applied for this visa  before 1 July 2015, you can stay in Australia for 4 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, if you meet certain requirements. Explore your visa options.
If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a new Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.
If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the original  Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.
You can also apply for a second Significant Investor Extension stream visa. If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 9 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment(Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extention stream.
Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the main applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements. 
Cost
This visa costs AUD14,240.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD7,120.00
additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD3,565.00
Any applicant who was at least 18 years old at the time of application, and is assessed as not having functional English , and has not paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to their application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa will have to pay this extra charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant the visa to that applicant.
The second instalment charges are:
main applicant: AUD9,795
family members: AUD4,890
Use the Visa pricing estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not complete the application form correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa
Meet your business obligations
While the holder of this visa, you must have a genuine and realistic commitment to:
you and/or your spouse or de facto partner must have a genuine intention to live in the State or Territory whose government agency nominated you
continue business and investment activity in Australia after your visa ends
You must also maintain your investment for the whole of the visa period and comply with Australian workplace laws.
To be eligible for the grant of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, you must also live in Australia for at least 40 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. Or your spouse or de facto partner must live in Australia for at least 180 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. These days do not need to be consecutive.
Maintain your investment
You must make a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million. You must hold complying significant investments continuously for the life of your provisional visa.
You can switch between complying significant investments if:
you reinvest the funds you withdraw from an investment into other complying significant investments within 30 days
the sum withdrawn is the same as, or less than, the sum reinvested irrespective of any gains and losses due to market exposures
If you reinvest funds into a complying significant investment within 30 days, we count that as holding them continuously.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital or emerging company investments, you must reinvest the funds into venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from the 'balancing investment' category of investments, you can reinvest them into another balancing investment, venture capital or emerging companies.
If you withdraw funds from venture capital because the venture capital investment has been realised, you must reinvest those funds. You can reinvest them in any eligible complying significant investment.
Income that you earn from your complying significant investment in Australia may be subject to tax under Australian taxation law.
Note that the investment rules that were in force at the time that you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream will continue to apply for the duration of your visa. This includes any Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream visas you apply for that relate to your visa.
You might want to seek independent legal advice to ensure that an investment is a ‘complying significant investment’. It is your responsibility to ensure your investment options comply with this visa's requirements.
For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet, and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia.
Follow Australian workplace laws
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
pay rates
shift calculations
leave arrangements and notice
redundancy entitlements
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.
