Subclass 491
Skilled Work Regional (Provisional) visa - Main applicant
This is a provisional visa. It is for skilled workers who want to live and work in regional Australia








With this visa you can
stay in Australia for 5 years from the date we grant you the visa
live, work and study in a designated region of Australia
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want, while the visa is valid
apply for permanent residence, if eligible, through the Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191) – which starts on 16 November 2022. You can’t apply for other permanent visas until you have held your subclass 491 visa for 3 years.
Designated regional area
You and all members of your family unit who are also holders of the visa, will need to live work and study in a designated regional area of Australia. Your nomination must not be withdrawn, or you will not be granted the visa.
Pathways to Permanent Residence
If eligible, you will be able to apply for permanent residence through the Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191) – which starts on 16 November 2022.
Unless you have held your subclass 491 visa for 3 years, holders of the subclass 491 visa can’t:
Make a valid application for a subclass 820 (Partner) visa
Be granted any of the following visas:
Subclass 132 (Business Talent)
Subclass 186 (Employer Nomination Scheme)
Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional))
Subclass 189 (Skilled (Independent))
Subclass 190 (Skilled (Nominated))
Subclass 858 (Global Talent)
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 5 years from the date we grant your visa.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you submit your visa application
add a dependent child after you submit but before we decide on your visa application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Cost
From AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.00.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be valid.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
