Subclass 190
Skilled Nominated visa
This visa lets nominated skilled workers live and work in Australia as permanent residents.









With this visa you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, become an Australian citizen
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
we grant the visa, if you are in Australia
you enter Australia on this visa, if you are outside Australia
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you lodge your visa application
add them after you lodge your application but before we decide on your visa. 
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, to assist us in processing your visa please tell us the reason why.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,885.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs.You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide your application but not in immigration clearance.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a Subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a Subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a Subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be valid.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
for permanent migration visa applications, how many places are available in the migration program
Travel
You can travel in and out of Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
