Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Sporting Activities
This visa allows you to play, coach, instruct or adjudicate for an Australian team, or do high level sports training with a sporting organisation. You and your family can stay in Australia for up to 2 years.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
take part in a structured sports training program at the national or international level
play for, coach, instruct or adjudicate for an Australian sporting team or sporting organisation for a season
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include members of the family unit in your application
You can't do any work other than the approved sporting activity.
If you are coming to Australia as a member of an overseas sports team, you could apply for a Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) Invited for Other Social and Cultural Activity.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
If you are a sportsperson participating at local or regional competitions, then you will normally be expected to depart Australia at the end of the sporting season. The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years. 
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If you are overseas when the visa is granted, the visa stay period starts on the day that you enter Australia. If you are in Australia, the visa starts on the day that it is granted.
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can:
include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, or
add family members to your application at any time before we make a decision
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements. 
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
If your sponsor, supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must do one of the following:
if eligible, apply for a new visa
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor/supporter, or before your visa expires if that happens sooner
 
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.
