Subclass 590
Student Guardian visa
Visit to support a child who holds a student visa.








With this visa you can
come to Australia to provide care and support for a student visa holder who is under 18 years of age (or over 18 in exceptional circumstances)
care for more than one student
study an English Language Intensive Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) for less than 20 hours per week, or any other study or training for no more than 3 months
You cannot work.
How long you can stay
You can stay in Australia until a date specified on your visa grant letter. In deciding this date, we usually consider the length of the student visa holder’s stay or when that student turns 18.
Stay longer
You can stay in Australia by applying for a further Student Guardian visa.
Include family
If any member of your family unit has not turned 6 years old, you cannot be granted the visa unless:
there are compelling and compassionate reasons or
granting the visa would significantly benefit the relationship between the Australian Government and the government of another country
The child must meet the same health requirements as you and have health insurance for the duration of their stay in Australia.
You can't include children under 6 years old after you have submitted your application.
Children 6 years old or older can come with you but they must apply for their own student visa.
Cost
The visa costs from AUD1,600.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens can apply for a partial refund of the cost, see Getting a refund.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. If you are in Australia you must hold an eligible substantive visa. For more information see 'Have this visa if applying while in Australia' under Eligibility.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application may take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See which conditions will and might be attached to this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid. But you can't leave Australia without the student visa holder unless you have made alternative welfare arrangements.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Financial support
You will need to be able to financially support yourself while in Australia. You will need to be able to financially support accompanying family members
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
