Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Superyacht Crew stream
This visa lets you work in Australia as a crew member of a superyacht. You can stay here for up to 12 months.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
work as a crew member on a superyacht
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
A superyacht is a high-value luxury sailing or motor vessel that:
is 24 metres or longer
doesn't carry cargo
is used for sport or recreation
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
We usually do not grant a visa stay period of more than 12 months for this activity. The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years. 
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, the visa stay period starts on the day that you enter Australia. If you are in Australia, the visa starts on the day that it is granted.
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
If you need to stay longer to complete your superyacht activities, you will need to submit a new application for this visa.
Cost
The visa usually costs from AUD415.00 for the main applicant. 
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
If your sponsor or supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must do one of the following:
if eligible, apply for a new visa; or
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor/supporter, or earlier if your visa is expiring
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.
