Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme visa (subclass 187)
Temporary Residence Transition stream
This visa allows skilled workers, who are nominated by their employer in regional Australia, live and work in Australia permanently.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor eligible relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
Travel
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident. 
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa – it lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
Your permanent residency for citizenship purposes starts:
on the day the visa is granted if you are in Australia
on the day you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia
Include family
You can:
include family members in your application when you apply
add family members to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
For this visa, your family members are:
your partner
your dependent child or stepchild
your partner's dependent child or stepchild
the dependent child or stepchild of your or your partner's dependent child or stepchild
You can also include someone who holds a subclass 457 visa or subclass 482 visa if we granted them that visa on the basis they are a member of your family.
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet the requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant. 
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
Second instalment
You will need to pay an extra charge called a second instalment for any family member aged 18 years or older who:
applies for the visa with you, and 
has less than Functional English
The second instalment for family members who apply for the visa with you is AUD4,890.00.
To be eligible for this visa as the main applicant, you must be able to show us you have Competent English unless you are exempt. If you are exempt from showing us you have Competent English, you must still show us you have Functional English. If you can't show us you have Functional English you must also pay a second instalment of AUD9,800.00 when we ask you to.
If you need to pay the second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa.
Other costs
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
Apply for this visa from in or outside Australia. If you are in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a bridging visa A, B or C.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can`t process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You agree to begin your employment within 6 months of:
entry to Australia if you were granted the visa outside Australia
the visa grant date if you were granted the visa in Australia
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
