Subclass 102
Adoption visa
This visa lets children adopted outside Australia live in Australia with their adoptive parent.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








Intercountry adoption
We can't help arrange adoptions and we do not issue letters of no objection. Our role is to assess and decide applications for visas.
Learn more about adopting a child overseas from Intercountry Adoptions Australia.
We are unable to accept adoption visa applications for children who have been adopted in Pakistan.
With this visa the child can
stay in Australia indefinitely with their adoptive parent
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
sponsor their relatives to come to Australia
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible 
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
they will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so they can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
they might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If they become an Australian citizen, they don't require a visa to enter Australia. They will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
The child becomes a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply for an Adoption visa, submit separate applications for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or added to their application at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also an additional charge for each of the child's dependent children who apply for the visa.
There might be other costs for health exams, police certificates and biometrics. 
To work out what the visa might cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child must be outside Australia when the application is submitted.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
it is not filled in correctly
it does not include all the documents we need or we need more information 
it takes us time to verify the information
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge is not paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
Your obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.




















































































