Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Approved Destination Status stream
This visa stream is for citizens from certain areas of China visiting Australia on a tour organised by an approved travel agent.








With this visa you can
can enter Australia with your approved tour group
can participate in activities that are part of your tour
must leave Australia with your tour group before your visa expires
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. If we grant you a visa we will let you know how long you can stay in your visa grant letter. We consider the length of your tour when we determine your stay period.
We grant the visa with either:
single entry. If you leave Australia you will have to apply for another visa to come back
multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia on this visa while it is valid
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD195.00.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be in the People's Republic of China when your visa application is lodged and when we make a decision on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.














































