Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Australian Government endorsed events
This temporary visa lets you come to Australia to participate in events endorsed by the Australian Government.








With this visa, you can
Travel to or stay in Australia to participate in events endorsed by the Australian Government.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You may be granted a visa for the duration of the event, or up to 4 years, depending on the circumstances.
Your visa stay period is shown on your visa grant letter:
If you apply in Australia, the visa stay period starts the day we grant it. 
If you apply outside Australia, the visa stay period starts the day you enter Australia on the visa.
You can check your visa details in the visa grant letter or use VEVO.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Cost
The visa usually costs AUD415.00 for the primary applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you. See Fees and charges for visas
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You need to comply with all public health directions to stay safe.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
Travel
The visa is granted with multiple entry. This means you can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want during the visa stay period. 
Re-entering Australia on a multiple entry visa does not restart the period of stay you were granted. The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.














































































