Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Business Visitor stream
This visa stream lets you visit Australia for business reasons.








With this visa you can
As a business visitor, you can:
make general business or employment enquiries
investigate, negotiate, enter into or review a business contract
conduct activities as part of an official government visit
take part in a conference, trade fair or seminar. You can’t be paid by the organisers to take part
undertake tourist activities
You can't:
work for or provide services to a business or organisation based in Australia
sell goods or services directly to the public
If you want to do short-term work in Australia that isn't a business visitor activity, consider applying for a temporary work visa.
Explore your visa options.
APEC Business Travel Card holders
You might not need to apply for a visa to travel to Australia if you hold an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC). We consider you to have applied for a Visitor visa when you applied for the ABTC.
ABTC holders (other than New Zealanders) might be granted a Visitor (subclass 600) Business Visitor stream visa to visit Australia.  If you hold an ABTC with ‘AUS’ printed on the back, you can enter Australia for short-stay business visitor or tourism activities for as long as the ABTC is valid. The ABTC is valid for 5 years from the date we issue it.
If you apply for and are granted a separate visa, the visa associated with your ABTC will cease.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
You can stay for the period or dates specified on the visa grant letter. We determine the length of your visa on a case by case basis.
Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
how long you want to stay
why you want to visit Australia
We may not grant the length of stay you want.
We can grant this visa with a single entry or multiple entry.
If we grant you a visa with multiple entry, you can leave and return to Australia on the visa while it is valid.
Generally, we grant a stay period of 3 months. We might grant a stay of up to 12 months in certain circumstances.
If you want to stay longer or permanently in Australia you will need to apply for a visa that allows this.
Explore your visa options
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
You can only apply for a new visa if your visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. We can waive a no further stay condition in limited circumstances.
If you want to have a further short stay or stay longer for a holiday you might be eligible for a Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream (apply in Australia).
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you might be able to apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances.
Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. Each family member, including those listed on your passport, must submit a separate application.
Cost
The visa costs AUD195.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs for:
health checks
police certificates
biometrics 
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator doesn't take into account the other costs.
Apply outside Australia
To be eligible for this visa, you must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide your application.
See other eligibility requirements.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about visa conditions
Health insurance
You are liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability. To cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia we strongly recommend you take out adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreements within Australia.
In some circumstances, we may grant your visa with Condition 8501 – Maintain adequate health insurance.
Travel
Check if you have multiple entry, or single entry, in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
If you have multiple entry, you can travel outside Australia and return while your visa is valid.
If you have single entry visa and you leave Australia, you have to apply for another visa to return.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.








































































