Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Business Innovation stream
This provisional visa is for people with business skills. It lets you operate a new or existing business in Australia.








With this visa, you can
operate a new or existing business in Australia
stay in Australia for up to 5 years
bring eligible members of your family with you
apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Business Innovation stream if certain requirements are met.
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years if you were invited to apply for this visa on or after 1 July 2021.
If you applied after 1 July 2015, and were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months.
If you applied before 1 July 2015, you can stay up to 4 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Business Innovation stream if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options.
If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a new Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation Extension stream. If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Business Innovation stream.
Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs from AUD9,710.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you:
additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD4,855.00
additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD2,430.00
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must also pay an extra charge.This charge is the second instalment charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
main applicant: AUD9795
family members: AUD4890
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not complete the form correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa. 
You must also meet certain business obligations and obey Australian workplace laws.
Meet your business obligations
While the holder of this visa, you must:
have a substantial ownership interest in a business in Australia
take part in its day-to-day management, at a senior level
In the business, you must do at least one of these things:
add to commercial activity and competitiveness within the Australian economy
develop business links with international markets
employ people in Australia
export Australian goods
introduce new or improved technology, or
produce goods or services that Australia would otherwise import
Follow Australian workplace laws
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
You must meet workplace laws when operating your business in Australia. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with:
pay rates
shift calculations
leave arrangements and notice
redundancy entitlements
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.













































































































































































