Subclass 836
Carer visa
This permanent visa lets you stay in Australia to care for someone with a long-term medical condition who has no reasonable access to care options in Australia.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
This visa lets you stay in Australia to provide care to someone with a long-term medical condition who does not have reasonable access to care options in Australia. The person you care for must be your Australian relative who needs care, or your relative's family member who lives with them and needs care.
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. 
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
This visa costs from AUD2,115.00 for the main applicant. There is also an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
You might also have to pay other costs for each applicant for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
We might consider reducing your second instalment to nil if you can show us that paying the second instalment is likely to cause you or the person you are caring for severe financial hardship.
We will not reduce the second instalment for anyone applying for the visa with you.
Send your request to us in writing.
Apply from
You must be in Australia when you apply and when we decide your application.
Processing times
The demand for Other Family visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you and/or
your information takes longer than usual to verify.
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Other Family Visa queues and processing priorities.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.


























































































