Subclass 802
Child visa
This visa allows a child to stay in Australia permanently and live with their parents.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa the child can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
sponsor relatives to come to Australia
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility of this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
they will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) visa so they can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
they might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If they become an Australian citizen, they don't require a visa to re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when the child's travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
The child becomes a permanent resident the day we grant the visa.
Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply, submit separate applications for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,140.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each dependent child who applies for the visa with you.
There might be other costs for health exams, police certificates and biometrics. 
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when the application is submitted and when we make a decision.
The child can't apply for this visa if they are in Australia on another visa with a no further stay condition.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
it is not filled in correctly
it does not include all the documents we need or we need more information 
it takes us time to verify the information
We can't process the application if the correct visa application charge is not paid. We will advise if this is the case and if necessary return the application.
The child's obligations
The child and any dependants must obey all Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link the visa to the child's passport. They will not get a label in their passport.







































































































