Subclass 808
Confirmatory (Residence)
This information is for former holders of Norfolk Island entry permits. This visa lets you remain in Australia indefinitely. You can travel overseas and return to Australia as a permanent resident until the travel component of your visa expires.








Visa arrangements for Norfolk Island residents and former entry permit holders
The Norfolk Island Immigration Act 1980 has been repealed and Norfolk Island has been integrated into the Australian migration zone. 
We have made transitional visa arrangements for residents of Norfolk Island and people who held a Norfolk Island immigration permit to ensure they are not disadvantaged by this change. The transitional arrangements offer non-citizen permit holders and residents rights and benefits comparable to those they had under the repealed act. 
On 1 July 2016, all non-citizens who were permanent residents of Norfolk Island under the Norfolk Island Immigration Act 1980 were taken to have been granted a comparable permanent Australian visa.
You are also considered to have been granted a comparable Australian visa if, on 30 June 2016, you held one of these permits under the Norfolk Island Immigration Act 1980: 
a temporary entry permit (TEP)
a general entry permit (GEP)
an unrestricted entry permit (UEP)
Norfolk Island permanent residents
We take you to have been granted the Confirmatory Residence visa (subclass 808) if, at the end of 30 June 2016 
held a Permanent Resident of Norfolk Island visa (subclass 834) visa under the Migration Act 1958 or  
you were a resident of Norfolk Island under the repealed Act and did not hold a Australian permanent visa under the Migration Act 1958 at that time
Norfolk Island entry permit holders
We consider you were granted a Provisional Resident return visa (subclass 159) if at the end of 30 June 2016 you:
held a temporary entry permit or general entry permit under the repealed act, and
did not hold a permanent visa under the Migration Act 1958.
New Zealand citizens
We consider you were granted a Special Category visa (subclass 444) if at the end of 30 June 2016 you:
held an unrestricted entry permit (UEP) under the repealed act, and
did not hold a permanent visa under the Migration Act 1958
If you held a temporary visa under the Migration Act 1958, that visa would remain in effect unless it was a:
Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Electronic Travel Authority (subclass 601)
eVisitor (subclass 651)
This means that unless you applied for and were granted another visa, the subclass 444 visa only came into effect when your current visa expired or expires. 
See more about the Special Category visa (subclass 444).
International travellers
If you are travelling between Norfolk Island and a country other than Australia you are subject to Australian immigration requirements in line with the Australian Migration Act 1958 and the Migration Regulations 1994. You must have an appropriate Australian visa to enter, visit or live in Norfolk Island.
Explore your visa options.
Who can apply for this visa
You might be able to apply for this visa if you are a former holder of a Norfolk Island immigration permit and on 30 June 2016,
you held any of the following permits granted under the repealed Norfolk Island Immigration Act 1980:
a temporary entry permit (TEP)
a general entry permit (GEP)
an unrestricted entry permit ( UEP)
or
you did not hold a TEP, GEP or UEP but at any time prior to 30 June 2016, you held a UEP and were ordinarily resident in Norfolk Island at that time
or
on or before 30 June 2016, you were born outside Norfolk Island and you did not hold a TEP, GEP or UEP
and
you are currently:
the dependent child of any of the above persons
born after 1 July 2016
made a combined application with any of the above persons
To be granted this visa, you must have been lawfully present in Norfolk Island for at least 5 of the 7 years immediately before applying for this visa 
If you have not been lawfully present in Norfolk Island for this period, you might still be eligible to meet this residence requirement if you are, or have been, lawfully present elsewhere in Australia for the purpose of study, and during that time all of the following apply:
you have not turned 25
you are a dependent child of a person who is ordinarily resident in Norfolk Island
while living there you meet, or met, the requirements of condition 8105 relating to students engaging in work.
You might need to provide evidence of your length of residence in Norfolk Island and elsewhere in Australia
If you are a dependent child, you might be able to be granted this visa as a secondary applicant if all of the following are met:
you were born in Australia on or after 1 July 2016
you are a dependent child of a parent who met one of the following:
held a Norfolk Island Immigration permit mentioned above on 30 June 2016
did not hold an entry permit but held a UEP before 30 June 2016 was ordinarily resident on Norfolk Island
was the dependent child of one of the two people mentioned directly above on 30 June 2016 
you made a combined application with your parent's application
As a secondary applicant, you will not need to meet the requirement of being lawfully present in Norfolk Island for five of the seven years immediately before lodging your application with your parent.
With this visa you can
remain in Australia indefinitely
live and work in Australia as a permanent resident
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. 
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you won't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long you can stay
This visa allows you to remain in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia, or
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia
Cost
From AUD365.00
Apply from
Outside Australia
You can apply for this visa from outside Australia. Do not make arrangements to travel to Australia until you are advised in writing that you have been granted a visa. Wait for a decision from us before you leave your job, sell your home or book your travel.
In Australia
You can also apply for this visa in Australia, but not in immigration clearance. You could be eligible for a Bridging visa that allows you to stay in Australia lawfully while your application is processed. If you are granted a Bridging visa A (BVA), you can apply for a Bridging visa B (BVB) to travel outside Australia while you wait for a decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.

























































