(Subclass 864)
Contributory Aged Parent visa
This permanent visa lets the aged parent of a settled Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen stay in Australia.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
If you hold a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) (subclass 884) visa
You can apply for the subclass 864 visa as a two-step process by first applying for a Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) (subclass 884) visa. Applying for the subclass 884 visa and then the subclass 864 visa allows you to spread the cost of the visas over a number of years.
You have already met the balance of family test.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day we grant the visa.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.
You will be required to include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, in the application form.
If you have a partner, include their details in your application even if they are not applying for the visa with you.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
This visa costs AUD48,495. There is an additional charge for each family member who applies with you. 
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments. 
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to.
You might also have to pay other costs for each applicant for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
See more about visa fees and charges.
Apply from
You must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa. 
Any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply.
Processing times
The demand for these visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all of the documents we need or we need more information from you and/or
your information takes a long time to verify.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Assessment
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages:
Check eligibility and either add the application to the queue or refuse it.
Continue assessing the application when a place becomes available and make a decision.
Do not arrange to stay permanently in Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Consider another visa
Other Parent visas available include the:
Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 884), then a permanentContributory Aged Parent visa (subclass 864). This 2-step visa process costs more than the subclass 804 visa. It also costs more than applying directly for the Contributory Aged Parent visa (subclass 864), but the cost is spread across the 2 visas over a longer period.
Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 870) is a temporary visa allowing parents to visit their children in Australia for up to three or five years at a time and a cumulative maximum 10 year period.
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.












































































































