Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme visa (subclass 187)
Direct entry stream
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa, you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia’s public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor eligible relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, become an Australian citizen
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa – it lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day the visa is granted.
Your permanent residency for citizenship purposes starts:
on the day the visa is granted if you are in Australia
on the day you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia
Include family
You can:
include family members in your application when you apply
add family members to your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa
For this visa, your family members are:
your partner
your dependent child or stepchild
your partner's dependent child or stepchild
the dependent child or stepchild of your or your partner's dependent child or stepchild
You can also include someone who holds a subclass 457 visa or subclass 482 visa if we granted them that visa on the basis they are a member of your family.
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet the requirements.
You might have to pay an extra charge for family members 18 years old or older who have less than Functional English. This charge is called the second instalment.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa. If you are in Australia you must hold a substantive visa or a Bridging visa A, B or C.
You can be in or outside Australia when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will work for your nominating employer in regional Australia for at least 2 years. If you don't, we might cancel your visa.
You must begin your employment within 6 months of:
entry to Australia if you were granted the visa outside Australia
the visa grant date if you were granted the visa in Australia
Travel
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return (RRV), you might not be able to return to Australia as a permanent resident. 
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital. You will not get a label in your passport.































































































































