Subclass 124
Distinguished Talent visa
This is a permanent visa for people who have an internationally recognised record of exceptional and outstanding achievement in an eligible field.








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, apply for Australian citizen
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa but not in immigration clearance. You must be outside Australia for your visa to be granted. 
If you are currently in Australia and hold an eligible visa you may need to consider your eligibility for the Distinguished Talent visa (subclass 858).
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit when you apply. You can also add family to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
If you are under 18 years old, you can include:
a parent
members of the family unit of that parent
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD4,110.00 for the main applicant.
There is an additional charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
You might have to pay an extra fee for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. We will tell you when to pay the second instalment.
The second instalment charge is AUD4,890.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
 
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
how many places are available in the migration program
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
We expect that you will contribute to Australia in your field of expertise.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155 or 157) to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident. To see when the 5 years ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.






























































































