Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or Consular)
This visa stream lets a person aged 18 years or older do temporary full-time domestic work in Australia in the household of someone who holds a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (subclass 995).








With this visa, you can
do full-time domestic work in the household of someone who holds a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (subclass 995)
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid.
How long can you stay
This is a temporary visa. If this is the first time you are applying for this visa, you can usually only stay for 12 months.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker stream visa in Australia before your current visa expires. You must not be in immigration clearance. You can stay for the length of time in your support letter from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts:
on the day you first enter Australia, if you are outside Australia when we grant the visa or
on the date we grant the visa if you are in Australia
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You can apply for a further Domestic Worker stream visa in Australia if you:
hold a current Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) in the Domestic Worker Stream
wish to keep working for your current employer in Australia who holds a Diplomatic visa (subclass 995), or another employer in Australia who holds a subclass 995 visa
have an employment contract that meets Australia's workplace relations laws
have the support of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade DFAT.
If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances. See Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your visa application.
Cost
The visa costs AUD365.00 for the applicant.
You may also have to pay other costs for police certificates, biometrics and health checks.
To work out how much this visa costs, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide on your first application.
If you apply for a further Domestic Worker visa, you can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We cannot process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this is the case and invalidate your application.
Your obligations
If we grant you a visa you must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa Label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.






















































































