Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 494)
Employer Sponsored stream
This visa enables regional employers to address identified labour shortages within their region by sponsoring skilled workers where employers can't source an appropriately skilled Australian worker
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
live, work and study only in designated regional areas of Australia for 5 years
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid
if eligible, apply for permanent residence after 3 years from the time your visa is granted
Specified region
You can live, work and study only in a designated regional area. Designated regional areas include all of Australia except for Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Pathways to permanent residence
If eligible, you can apply for permanent residence after you have held your 494 visa for 3 years.
Unless you have held your subclass 494 visa for 3 years, holders of the subclass 494 visa are unable to:
 Make a valid application for a subclass 820 (Partner) visa 
 Be granted any of the following visas:
Subclass 132 (Business Talent) 
Subclass 186 (Employer Nomination Scheme)
Subclass 188 (Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional))
Subclass 189 (Skilled (Independent))
Subclass 190 (Skilled (Nominated))
Subclass 191 (Skilled Regional) (Regional Provisional Stream)
Subclass 858 (Global Talent)
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for a period of 5 years from when your visa is granted.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
If eligible, you can apply for permanent residence after 3 years from the time your visa is granted.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you submit your visa application
add a dependent child after you submit but before we decide on your visa application
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who do not apply for the visa with you might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, you must tell us the reason why. For example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident.
Cost
This visa costs AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant, AUD2,385.00 for each dependent 18 years and over, and AUD1,190.00 for each dependent under 18 years.
It costs an additional AUD9,800.00 if any dependent applicants who are 18 years and over do not have functional English. This extra charge is called a second instalment.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You will have to pay other costs including English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we make a decision on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold either of the following visa otherwise your application will not be valid:
a substantive visa, or
a Bridging visa A, Bridging visa B or Bridging visa C
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days of:
entering Australia, if you are outside Australia when we grant the visa
the visa grant date, if you are in Australia when we grant the visa
You must only work in your nominated occupation and only work for your nominating employer in regional Australia. If you do not, we might cancel your visa.
Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.






































































































