Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Entertainment Activities stream
This temporary visa lets you come to Australia to work in the entertainment industry on film, television or live productions as a performer, production or support staff. You can include family members in your visa application.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
work in the entertainment industry in Australia as a performer, production or support staff
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include members of the family unit in your application
Entertainment activity categories
You apply for this visa under one of these categories:
performing in a film or television production subsidised by government
performing in a film or television production not subsidised by government
performing other than in film or television
working in a production role other than as a performer
working as support staff for an entertainer or group of entertainers
working as a performer or support staff for a non-profit engagement
working on a documentary or commercial for an overseas market
Examples of eligible work
Eligible work could include:
acting in a television or film production
making a celebrity cameo appearance
a contestant or worker on a reality tv program who receives a salary
stand-up comedian
international musician or support staff
live theatre performer or support staff
singer 
classical musician
internet video performer
cultural performer
documentary presenter
celebrity appearance in a commercial
non-performing production or technical crew
journalist or other media personnel covering an event
choreographer giving a dance workshop that includes a ticketed public closing performance
Other visas that might suit you
Consider a different Temporary Activity stream or a different visa if you are planning to work as:
an entertainer attending a promotional event only, without performing – see the Invited Participant stream of this visa
an artist creating visual art or holding exhibitions of their work - see the Invited Participant stream of this visa
an author at a writer's festival presenting work in front of an audience - see the Invited Participant stream of this visa
a dance choreographer conducting a dance workshop that includes a closing non-ticketed performance - see the Invited Participant stream of this visa
a journalist or other media personnel covering events for a non-Australian audience – see Temporary Work (Short Stay Specialist) visa (subclass 400)
a competitor in a non-sporting competition for dance, music or online gaming - see the Invited Participant stream of this visa
a contestant of a reality show not receiving a salary - see the Invited Participant stream of this visa or Visitor visas
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant it.
If we grant the visa, we will let you know how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can:
include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, or
add family members to your application at any time before we make a decision
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Visa Application Charge concession
If your sponsor/supporter organisation is included by the Minister in a legislative instrument, you may be eligible for a Visa Application Charge concession. The organisation must be:
any registered charity with the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission
any foreign government agency, embassy or consulate
any state, territory or Commonwealth government agency; or
another organisation that has been listed by name in the instrument as they are managing an event that receives significant government funding.
You will not receive a concession if you are also contracted to other organisations that are not listed in the instrument for other events during your stay.
Check with your sponsor if you might be eligible for a visa application charge concession. If you are, ask them for evidence of this to submit with your application.
We might not process your application if you ask for a concession but don't provide evidence you are eligible for one. 
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
You must not change the times and places of engagements specified in the application. If you need to do so, you must ask the Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs for permission before you make any changes.
You must ask permission from the Temporary Specialist Entry Centre to make any changes to your itinerary. This includes new events, changes in times or new venues. Send an email to entertainment.visas@homeaffairs.gov.au or let us know in ImmiAccount.
If your sponsor, supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must do one of the following:
if eligible, apply for a new visa; or
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor/supporter, or earlier if your visa is expiring
 
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.



























































































































