Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Entrepreneur stream
For startup and early stage entrepreneurs who have been endorsed to develop their concepts and been nominated by a State or Territory government agency.








With this visa, you can
carry out entrepreneurial activity in Australia
stay in Australia for up to 5 years
bring eligible members of your family with you
apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Entrepreneur stream if certain requirements are met
How long you can stay
This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years. 
The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa is valid from the date it is granted.
Stay longer
This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Explore your visa options.
Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Entrepreneur stream if certain requirements are met.
Include family
You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements.
The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted.
Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount. An application charge is applicable.
In order for the primary applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements and might have to meet our health requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD6,570.00 for the primary applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD3,285.00
additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD1,640.00
Any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English must pay an extra charge. This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa.
The second instalment charges are:
primary applicant: AUD9,795
family members: AUD4,890
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
There are no standard processing times available for this stream.
But your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Your obligations
You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
You must meet certain obligations related to your entrepreneurial activities. You must also obey Australian workplace laws.
Meet your entrepreneur obligations
If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021
You must be undertaking or propose to undertake a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia and have a genuine intention to undertake, and continue to undertake, the complying entrepreneur activity. You must also have been nominated by a State or Territory government agency to develop your concepts.
If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021
You must be undertaking or propose to undertake a complying entrepreneur activity in Australia and have a genuine intention to undertake, and continue to undertake, the complying entrepreneur activity. You must also have a legally enforceable funding agreement with a third party of at least AUD200,000. There are other eligibility requirements for this visa.
The funding party must pay your entrepreneurial entity at least 10% of the total funding. They must do this within 12 months of the day you start the entrepreneurial activity in Australia. You must use this funding in accordance with your funding agreement.
Follow Australian workplace laws
All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The  Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT)  can help you with:
pay rates
shift calculations
leave arrangements and notice
redundancy entitlements
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
Australian visas are digital.
We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.

























































































































