Subclass 202
Global Special Humanitarian visa
With this visa you can move to Australia if you face substantial discrimination or human rights abuses, and have a proposer, and stay in Australia permanently with your immediate family.
For Applicants
For Proposers








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
propose family members for permanent residence
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible become an Australian citizen
attend free English language classes through the Adult Migrant English Program
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia permanently.
You become a permanent resident on the day you enter Australia on this visa. This counts for citizenship purposes.
Include family
You can include family in your application when you apply. You can also add certain family members to your application at any time before we decide on your application.
For this visa, your family are:
your partner
your dependent children
your partner’s dependent children
other relative who is a dependant (parent, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew or cousin).
If your child is not dependent on you, they must apply for their own visa.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
It is important to declare all your family members, even if they will not be applying with you.
If you do not declare a family member in your application, you may not be able to propose them for a Humanitarian visa after you arrive in Australia.
Cost
There is no visa application charge for this visa unless you are proposed under the Community Support Program by an Approved Proposing Organisation.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia and outside your country of origin when you apply for this visa.
Processing times
The Special Humanitarian Program (SHP) receives more applications each year than the number of places available. Most SHP applications will take at least 6 years from date of lodgement to process. Applicants will be notified when their application reaches the next stage of processing or when the application is finalised.
We generally acknowledge humanitarian visa applications in writing. This may take some weeks.
Processing time is lengthy and varies according to the circumstances of each applicant.
Your application can take longer to process if:
your application form is not filled in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We do not give processing updates.
Priorities
SHP applications are processed in order of priority group. Visa applications for family reunion are more likely to be successful if the proposer is an immediate or close family member because they receive a higher priority. 
Priority groups within the SHP are as follows:
Your proposer is an immediate family member (partner or dependent child, or, if the proposer is under 18 years of age, the proposer's parent). They must also have been granted a Class XB visa or are an Australian citizen who held a Protection or Resolution of Status visa.
You must also meet the split-family criteria. This means your proposer:
was a member of your immediate family when we granted their visa
told us about your relationship before we granted their visa
proposed your visa application within 5 years of us granting their visa.
You do not meet the split-family criteria and your proposer is a close family member (partner, child, parent or sibling) and does not hold a Protection or Resolution of Status visa.
Your proposer is an extended family member (grandparent, grandchild, cousin, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew) and does not hold a Protection or Resolution of Status visa.
Your proposer is a distant relative, friend or community organisation and does not hold a Protection or Resolution of Status visa.
Your proposer holds a Protection or Resolution of Status visa.
A person who arrived in Australia as an unauthorised maritime arrival (UMA) on or after 13 August 2012 cannot propose family members under the Humanitarian Program. This is in line with the Migration Regulations 1994.
The Australian Government has established policy to guide decisions on which applications ought generally to be given priority. This policy includes those who are outside their home country and are one of the following:
You are assessed as a refugee by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and referred to Australia for resettlement.
You are proposed by an immediate family member (for example, spouse, child under 18) who holds a Class XB visa (subclass 200, 201, 202, 203 or 204).
You are a member of an identified minority group (such as women and girls, ethnic minorities and LGBTQI+) who are referred by UNHCR or proposed by a family member in Australia.
As all humanitarian applicants are in similarly compelling circumstances, the Department is unable to expedite applications outside of these priorities.
Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
If you signed a health undertaking, you must comply with it.
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Assisted Passage
The Assisted Passage program supports the delivery of Australia’s Offshore Humanitarian Program and provides health screening and medical related services to Special Humanitarian Program visa applicants and visa holders.
The Assisted Passage services are currently transitioning from International Organization for Migration (IOM) to Toll Transport Pty Ltd (Toll). During the transition, you may be contacted by either Toll or IOM depending on your location. You and your proposer are responsible for arranging and paying for your travel to Australia.
Assistance for travel to Australia may be available through the International Organization for Migration (IOM) under their prepaid migration travel program. More information is available on the IOM website Travel to Australia with IOM
You or your proposer can also request Toll to assist you with arranging travel. You and your proposer are responsible for paying Toll for your travel to Australia. 
Please tell us about your travel bookings so that we can ensure you receive settlement assistance when you arrive in Australia.
Travel
You and your proposer or approved proposing organisation are responsible for arranging your travel to Australia. 
If the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter has passed, contact the visa processing office for a travel facilitation letter. We may first ask you to undergo a fresh medical examination.
You can travel to and from Australia for 5 years from the date we grant the visa. After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa (subclass 155) or (subclass 157) to re-enter Australia.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport or other travel document. You will not get a label.





































































































