Temporary work (International relations) visa (subclass 403)
Government Agreement stream
This visa stream allows a person to work in Australia under the terms and conditions of a bilateral agreement between the Australian Government or a state/territory government and a government of another country.








With this visa, you can
work under the terms and conditions of a bilateral agreement between the Australian Government, or a state/ territory government, and a government of another country
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want
apply to bring your immediate family to Australia (if allowed under the agreement, and specified in the letter of support from the Australian signatory).
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay for the time we specify in your visa grant notice. This may be up to 4 years unless the Australian signatory has asked for a shorter period.
The visa starts:
on the day you first enter Australia, if you are outside Australia when we grant the visa or
on the date we grant the visa, if you are in Australia when we grant the visa.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You may apply for a further subclass 403 visa under the Government Agreement stream, if you meet the requirements.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply if allowed under the agreement, and specified in the letter of support from the Australian signatory.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD365.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a fee for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You may also have to pay other costs for:
police certificates
health checks, and
biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
To find out about processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need
we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this is the case and invalidate your application.
Your obligations
If granted a visa, you and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.




























































































