Subclass 891
Investor visa
This visa is for people who undertake business and investment activities in Australia. It allows you to stay in Australia indefinitely. To apply as a primary applicant, you must have a qualifying visa granted on a particular basis.








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, become an Australian citizen
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely. The visa has a travel component that expires 5 years after the date of visa grant.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
we grant the visa, if you are in Australia
you enter Australia on this visa, if you are outside Australia
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you lodge your visa application
add them after you lodge your application but before we decide on your visa
A member of the family unit can include family members who hold an eligible visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of your family unit at the time their eligible visa was granted. This provision may apply even where the person would no longer meet the definition of members of the family unit, for example a child who has turned 23 years of age since their eligible visa was granted.
Members of the family unit who apply for the visa must meet our health and character. Members of the family unit not accompanying you to Australia may also need to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
Application charge
The visa costs AUD2,890.00
There is also a charge for each member of the family unit who applies for the visa with you.
Second instalment charge
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English and who does not hold an eligible visa when they apply. This charge is called the second instalment. This charge is only payable if you are requested to pay it and we send you an invoice.   
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator.
The Visa Pricing estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs.
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Apply from
You must be in Australia when you submit your application. Members of your family unit can be in or outside Australia but not in immigration clearance.
You must hold an eligible visa to make a valid application for this visa.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case by case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
for permanent migration visa applications, how many places are available in the migration program
 
Your obligations
You and members of your family unit must obey all Australian laws.
We expect you to continue your business or investment activity in Australia, or make a realistic commitment to doing so.
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. 
After 5 years you will need a Resident Return (RRV) visa  (subclass 155 and 157) to re enter Australia as a 
permanent resident. 
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
 
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.




























































































