Skilled Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 489)
Invited pathway
This is a temporary visa. It is for skilled workers who want to live and work in regional Australia.









With this visa, you can
stay in Australia for 4 years from the date we grant you the visa
live, work and study in a specified region of Australia
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want, while the visa is valid
apply for permanent residence, if eligible, through the Skilled—Regional (Residence) visa (subclass 887)
Specified region
Applicants nominated by a State or Territory government agency
If a State or Territory government agency nominated you for this visa, and your visa was granted before 16 November 2019, you  will need to live work and study only in a regional and low population growth metropolitan area. This applies to members of your family unit who are also holders of the visa.
If your visa was granted on or after 16 November 2019, you will need to live, work and study in a designated regional area.
Your nomination must not be withdrawn or you will not be granted the visa.
Applicants sponsored by an eligible relative
If an eligible relative sponsored you for this visa, you  will need to live, work and study only in a specified area of Australia, even if your visa was granted after 16 November 2019. This applies to members of your family unit who are also holders of the visa.
This postcode list is different to the designated regional area postcode list that apply to regional visas from 16 November 2019.
The Minister must accept your sponsorship or you will not be granted the visa.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for 4 years from the date we grant your visa.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application. You can:
include them when you submit your visa application
add a dependent child after you submit but before we decide on your visa application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members not accompanying you to Australia might also need to meet our health and character requirements.
If your partner or dependent children are not included in this application, tell us the reason why (for example, they already hold Australian citizenship or are a permanent resident).
Cost
From AUD4,770.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We ask for the charge only if we are going to grant the visa.
The second instalment charge for family members is AUD4,890.00.
The Visa Pricing Estimator does not include the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
If you apply in Australia, you must hold a substantive visa or a subclass 010 Bridging A visa, a subclass 020 Bridging B visa or a subclass 030 Bridging C visa, otherwise your application will not be valid.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
You can travel out of Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.











































































































































