Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Other Social and Cultural Activity (Invited Participant) stream
This visa lets you come to Australia if you are invited to participate in a community-based event, including sporting events. You and your family who travel on the visa with you can stay here for up to 3 months.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
take part in a community-based event for a cultural or social activity such as a sporting, religious, artistic or academic event, or a conference
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include members of the family unit in your visa application
Examples of cultural or social events
You might be:
an individual sportsperson or member of a sports team, or team support staff such as a manager, medic, coach, referee or official. But you are not eligible for this stream if you have been contracted to play for or coach an Australian team
a minister conducting religious services or taking part in other religious activities as the guest of an Australian religious institution 
working at a religious event 
an academic invited by a tertiary academic institution to lecture, hold workshops or take part in research 
a public speaker or lecturer
speaking, presenting or lecturing at a trade fair, expo, exhibition, conference, workshop or seminar 
an entertainer attending specific promotional events, but not performing 
an artist making visual art or exhibiting your work 
an author, presenting your work to an audience at a writers festival 
a choreographer conducting a dance workshop that includes an unticketed closing performance
If you are a competitor in a non-sporting competition such as a dance competition, music competition, online gaming competition or student competition, you might also consider a Visitor visa. 
Other visa options
Depending on your reasons for travel, another stream of this visa or a different visa might be more suitable.
The Entertainment stream must be used if you are:
an entertainer or performer working in the Australian Entertainment industry 
production crew for a competition being filmed in Australia 
a journalist or other media personnel covering an event for an Australian audience 
The Sports stream might be more suitable if you are:
a sportsperson contracted to play for or coach an Australian sporting team 
a sports trainee taking part in a high-level structured sports training program of more than 3 months 
The Religious Work stream might be better for you if you are doing full-time religious work. 

The Research stream might be better for you if you are invited by a tertiary academic institution to take part in research for more than 3 months.
The Temporary Work (Short Stay Specialist) (subclass 400) visa might be more suitable if you are:
a journalist or other media covering an event, where coverage is not intended for an Australian audience
someone else working at the event,such as a project manager or specialised construction worker
A Visitor visa might be more suitable if you are:
attending or taking part in a trade fair, expo, exhibition, religious or cultural event, conference, workshop or seminar, but you are not entertaining or being paid to contribute
an amateur sportsperson training or taking part in a recreational match
an unpaid volunteer supporting an amateur sportsperson or team
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
The maximum stay for this visa stream is 3 months.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If you are overseas when the visa is granted, the visa stay period starts on the day that you enter Australia. If you are in Australia, the visa starts on the day that it is granted.
Your visa grant letter will tell you how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can:
include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, or
add family members to your application at any time before we make a decision
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements. 
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will let you know if this is the case.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or job conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
If your sponsor, supporting organisation or individual stops your activity or employment, you must either:
apply for a new visa if eligible, or
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor or supporter, or before your visa expires if that happens sooner
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.































































































