Subclass 988
Maritime Crew visa
This visa allows foreign crew on a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship to enter Australia by sea when on an international voyage. It is also for the partner or dependent child of a foreign crew member of an eligible ship, when on the same ship.








With this visa you can
arrive and depart Australia by sea as a crew member of an MCV eligible ship
stay in Australia for as long as you are signed on as a crew member of an MCV eligible ship
sign off your ship in Australia to leave Australia, or to join another MCV eligible ship
only perform work in Australia as a crew member that meets the normal operational duties of your MCV eligible ship.
With this visa you cannot:
enter Australia by air only holding this visa. To fly to Australia, you will also need another visa to enter
enter Australia by sea on a type of ship that is not specified as eligible for an MCV
stay as a visitor or tourist, or permanently. You can hold a Visitor visa at the same time as you hold an MCV to visit or sightsee Australia while you are not working as a crew member on a ship
work in Australia, in port or at sea, doing work that is not directly related to the operation of the ship as a member of crew
bypass Australia’s health and quarantine requirements.
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
Which ships you can work on in Australia
Ships that do meet the eligibility for a Maritime Crew Visa include:
cargo ships carrying goods between Australia and overseas ports
international cruise ships with paying passengers
foreign government owned and operated research ships
ships granted Public Vessel Status by Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
ships that have been entered for home consumption or imported under specific sections of Australia’s Customs Act 1901 and that have been registered on the Australian International Shipping Register (this does not include registration on the Australian General Shipping Register).
Ships that are not eligible include:
small marine crafts, yachts and superyachts
petroleum export tankers that go to both an offshore resource activity area and an Australian port on the same international journey
trawlers and cable laying vessels
most fishing vessels
research vessels that are not owned and operated by a foreign government.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply. You can be inside or outside Australia when your visa is decided.
You must not travel to Australia without a visa.
How long you can stay
Maritime Crew visas last for three years unless they are ceased for one of the following reasons:
you try to enter Australia, or you are working in Australia, on a ship that is not a MCV eligible ship
while in Australia, you do work that is not related to the normal operational duties of the ship
you arrive in Australia by air and do not sign on to your ship within five days of arrival or before any other visa you hold ceases, whichever is longer
you sign off your ship, and you do not:
leave Australia
hold another type of visa or
sign on to another MCV eligible ship within five days (or a period specified by the Department of Home Affairs)
your ship has been imported or brought into Australia for sale and:
was not registered on the Australian International Shipping Register, or
it was registered but that registration has ceased, and
you do not leave Australia, hold another suitable visa, or sign on to another MCV eligible ship within five days (or a period specified by the Department of Home Affairs)
you leave a vessel after arriving in Australia without being immigration-cleared
you hold another visa and the other visa is cancelled for a reason other than on character grounds
we determined that it is undesirable for you to continue to hold a Maritime Crew visa.
While the visa is valid you can enter Australia by sea as a member of a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship as many times as you want.
If you want to enter Australia by air to join a ship, and you hold a Maritime Crew visa, you will need another visa to enter.
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
Stay longer
You cannot apply for a new Maritime Crew visa while you are in Australia. You must apply for another visa. You need to do this before your current visa ceases.
For more information on visa options, see Explore visa options.
Include family
Members of the family unit can apply for Maritime Crew visas if they are travelling on the same ship as you with permission from the vessel master. They must lodge separate application forms.
The Maritime Crew visa held by members of your family unit will cease if:
your Maritime Crew visa ceases
they enter Australia on a ship without you and don't hold a valid visa other than the Maritime Crew visa
they stop travelling with you and do not leave Australia or get another visa.
Family members are not permitted to work in Australia on a Maritime Crew visa.
Travel
You can enter Australia by sea as a member of a Maritime Crew visa eligible ship as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
You cannot fly into Australia only holding a Maritime Crew visa.
Cost
Free
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You and members of your family unit must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Health insurance
You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Medical insurance helps limit your financial liability.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.






















































































