Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)
Medium-term stream
This visa enables employers to address labour shortages by bringing in skilled workers where employers can't source an appropriately skilled Australian worker.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa, you can
work in Australia for your sponsor for up to 4 years, or up to 5 years if you are a Hong Kong passport holder
study (you won't receive government assistance)
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid
if eligible, apply for permanent residence
For this stream of the visa, you must be sponsored to work in an occupation listed on the Medium and Long-term Strategic Skills List (MLTSSL). 
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions conditions refer to your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
Cost
The visa costs AUD3,115.00 for the main applicant and for each dependant 18 years and over.
It costs AUD780.00 for each dependant under 18 years old.
You will have to pay other costs for English language tests, health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator.
The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for the period of time your employer nominates you for up to a maximum period of 4 year or up to 5 years if you are a Hong Kong passport holder.
For further information on recent changes regarding Hong Kong or British National (Overseas) (BN(O)) passport holders read Visa options for Hong Kong - update.
Stay longer
If your visa is expiring and you want to stay in Australia to work for your existing employer:
your employer will need to submit a new nomination
you must apply for a new visa.
Your employer may be able to sponsor you for permanent residence through the:
Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186)
Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme (subclass 187)
You might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work. 
Current temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will be eligible for an extension of 5 years (from 9 July 2020) in addition to the time they’ve already been in Australia.
Current and future temporary skilled visa holders from Hong Kong will also have a pathway to permanent residency after 5 years.
Include family
You can include other family members (called 'secondary applicants') in your visa application. The family members you can add will depend on whether you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa.
You have not previously held a subclass 457 or TSS visa
If you have not previously held a subclass 457 or TSS visa, the secondary applicants you can include in your visa application are those who are members of the family unit.
You currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa
If you currently hold a subclass 457 or TSS visa and you are applying for a subsequent subclass TSS visa, the secondary applicants who can be included in your application are:
one of the members of the family unit, or
a person who currently holds a subclass 457 or TSS visa that was granted on the basis that they were a member of the family unit at the time, and is currently one of the following:
your spouse or de facto partner
your or your spouse's or de facto partner's child or step-child who is not engaged, married or in a de facto relationship, and is:
younger than 23
aged 23 or older and fully or mostly reliant on you or your partner because they cannot work, due to a partial or total physical or mental disability
is a dependent child of your or your spouse or de facto partner's child or step-child 
To be granted the visa, secondary applicants must be included in the main applicant's nomination, or provide written evidence that the sponsor who nominated the main applicant agrees that the secondary applicant can be a secondary sponsored person.
Secondary applicants who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
You can’t add family members to your visa application after it has been submitted. 
If you have submitted your visa application and it is being processed by the Department, family members that were not included in your visa application can lodge a subsequent entrant application.
Alternatively, if we have granted you a visa, family members may apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
a substantive visa, or
a Bridging visa A, Bridging visa B or Bridging visa C
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
You must begin your employment within 90 days of:
entering Australia, if you are outside Australia when grant the visa
the visa grant date, if you are in Australia when we grant the visa
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to check your visa details and conditions through VEVO.
Work
Conditions attached to this visa include that you work in Australia only in the occupation you were nominated for and only for your nominating business or in some circumstances, an associated entity of the business.
Your family can also live, study and work in Australia.
Learn more about conditions on this visa.


















































































































