(Subclass 117)
Orphan Relative visa
This visa lets a child who is single come to Australia to live with a relative if their parents are deceased, can't care for them or can't be found.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa the child can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia in line with Australian law
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
sponsor relatives to come to Australia
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
The child can travel to and from Australia as many times as they want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If the child wants to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
they will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so they can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
they might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If they become an Australian citizen, they won't require a visa to enter Australia. They will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when the travel facility ends, use VEVO.
How long the child can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets the child stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, the child becomes a permanent resident on the day they enter Australia on the visa.
Include other children
If the child has siblings who also want to apply, make a separate application for each sibling.
The child's dependent children can be included on their application when they apply or at any time before we decide the application.
Dependent children of the child who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Cost
The visa costs AUD1,920.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each of the child's dependent children who apply for the visa.
There might also be other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
Use the  Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
The child must be outside Australia when the application is made and when we make a decision.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
The application might take longer to process if:
it is not filled in correctly
it does not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
We cannot process the application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. If this happens, we will tell the visa applicant. If necessary we will return the application.
The child's obligations
The child must enter Australia before the date specified in their grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
The child and their family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link the child's visa to their passport. They will not get a label in their passport.
If we grant the visa, we will send a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. Use this number to access the digital visa record.






















































































