Subclass 103
Parent visa
This permanent visa lets a parent of a settled Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen move to Australia.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor your family members to come to Australia
apply for Australian citizenship, if eligible
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
Apply for a Parent visa (subclass 103) as a retiree
If you apply for the subclass 103 visa as a retiree you don't have to:
meet the balance of family test, or
have a sponsor or an assurance of support
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residence starts on the day we grant the visa.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply.  
You are required to include details of all your family members in your application form whether they are migrating or not.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa as a retiree, you:
can include your partner when you apply provided they are also retired
can't include your children in your application
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
This visa costs from AUD5,125.00. There is also an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to. See more about visa fees and charges.
You might also have to pay other costs for each applicant for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa.
If you apply in Australia, any family members who apply with you must also be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply. If you apply outside Australia, any family members who apply for the visa with you must also be outside Australia when you apply.
If you are applying as a retiree you must be in Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply. You can be in or outside Australia when we make a decision on your application.
Processing times
The demand for Parent visas is greater than the number of places available each year.  As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you and/or
your information takes longer than usual to verify. 
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about processing times and the Parent visa queue, see: Parent visa queue.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Assessment
We assess applications for this visa in 2 stages
Check eligibility and either add the application to the queue or refuse it.
Continue assessing the application when a place becomes available and make a decision.
Do not arrange to move to Australia until your visa is granted. We will let you know in writing if we grant you the visa.
Learn more about the Parent visa queue and processing priorities.
Consider another visa
Other Parent visas available include the:
Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143). This is a permanent visa. Contributory Parent visas may be processed faster, but cost more
Contributory Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 173), then a permanent Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143). This 2-step visa process may be faster but costs more than the subclass 103 visa. It also costs more than applying directly for the Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143), but the cost is spread across the 2 visas over a longer period and
Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 870) is a temporary visa allowing parents to visit their children in Australia for up to three or five years at a time and a cumulative maximum 10 year period.
You can view all visa options on our Visa list page.
Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the date specified in your grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.














































































































