Subclass 100
Partner (Migrant) visa
The visa lets the de facto partner or spouse of an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen, live in Australia permanently. It is usually granted to people who hold a temporary Partner visa (subclass 309).
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa you can
live, work and study in Australia indefinitely
access Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare
sponsor eligible family members to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible, attend free English language classes provided by the Adult Migrant English Program
if eligible, apply for Australian citizenship.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
For more information see Check visa details and conditions.
Travel on this visa
If you are outside Australia at the time of visa grant, you must enter Australia before the first entry arrival date (initial arrival date) specified in your grant letter.
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa. This is as long as the travel facility on this visa remains valid.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel facility you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV). This will allow you to travel to Australia as a permanent resident.
To see when your travel facility ends, use VEVO.
Include family members
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply for the temporary Partner visa (subclass 309). Members of the family unit who apply with you must also be outside Australia
To include a dependent child in your permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) application after we have granted you a subclass 309 visa, your child must first apply for a Dependent child visa (subclass 445).  We can grant your child the subclass 100 visa if they are members of the family unit and meet all other criteria.
You cannot add any family members after we grant the permanent Partner visa (subclass 100).
Dependent Child visa (subclass 445) holders
If you have a dependent child who does not hold a subclass 309 visa, you can add them to your permanent Partner visa (subclass 100) application before we make a decision on your permanent visa application.
Your child must hold a Dependent Child visa (subclass 445) and can be in or outside Australia.
Once your child holds a subclass 445 visa, complete and attach to your ImmiAccount, Form 1002 - Application by a subclass 445 dependent child for a permanent partner visa (279KB PDF). 
After you have attached the form to ImmiAccount, let us know by using the Partner Processing Enquiry Form.
Newborn children
If you have a baby after you have applied for this visa, you will need to let us know. For more information, see You had a baby.
Cost
You paid for this visa when you applied for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
You might have to pay other costs for health or police checks.
Processing times
The processing time for a permanent Partner visa starts from the date of eligibility. This is 2 years after you applied for the combined temporary and permanent partner visas.
We update processing times regularly. We assess all applications on a case by case basis. Complex cases may take longer to process. You should use published processing times as a guideline only.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you don't include all required documents
we need more information from you
it takes time to verify your information.
Visa label
You will not get a label in your passport. We will digitally link your visa to your passport and create a digital visa record for you.
Frequently asked questions
You can find the answers to common questions about this visa at Partner Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs). 















































































