Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)
Privileges and Immunities stream
This visa stream lets you come to Australia if you have, or expect to have, privileges and immunities under relevant legislation. You can stay in Australia on this visa while you are working as an international representative.








With this visa, you can
work in Australia as an international representative
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
bring your immediate family
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay for the time we specify in your visa grant letter.
You can usually stay in Australia as long as you are working as an international representative with the relevant privileges and immunities and continue to have the support of DFAT.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The visa starts on the date we grant the visa (if you are in Australia at the time of grant) or on the date you enter Australia (if you were outside Australia when we granted it).
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer.
You can apply for another visa under the Privileges and Immunities stream in Australia if you continue to meet the relevant criteria or you can apply for a different visa.
See your options.
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. 
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our character requirement.
Cost
There is no cost for this visa.
You might have to pay for police certificates and biometrics.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application can take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.


























































































