Subclass 115
Remaining Relative visa
This permanent visa lets people move to Australia to be with their only close family members.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa you can
stay in Australia indefinitely
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public healthcare scheme, Medicare.
sponsor your relatives to come to Australia
if eligible, apply for Australian citizenship
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits.
Travel to and from Australia for 5 years
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want for 5 years from the date we grant this visa until the travel validity expires.
If you want to travel after the initial 5-year travel validity:
you will need to apply for and be granted a Resident Return (RRV) so that you can re-enter Australia as a permanent resident
you might also want to consider Australian citizenship. If you become an Australian citizen, you don't require a visa to enter Australia. You will need to apply for an Australian passport and use it to leave and re-enter Australia. See more about eligibility requirements and current processing times for Australian citizenship
To see when your travel validity ends, use VEVO.
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
For citizenship purposes, you become a permanent resident at the time:
you enter Australia on this visa; or
if you previously have been present in Australia and held a permanent visa immediately before last leaving Australia, when we grant this visa
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You an also add them to your application at any time before we make a decision.
You should include details of all your family members, whether they are migrating or not, in the application form. 
Family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
This visa costs from AUD5,125.00
There is an additional charge for each family member who applies with you.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts, called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply and the second instalment when we ask you to.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
See more about visa fees and charges.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide your application.
Processing times
The demand for Other Family visas is greater than the number of places available each year. As a result, processing times for these applications can be lengthy.
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you and/or
your information takes longer than usual to verify.
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Applications for this visa are subject to capping and queueing.
Learn more about the Other Family Visa queues and processing priorities.
The Reports on Migration Programs have further information on Migration Program outcomes against planning for each migration program year.
Your obligations
You must enter Australia before the date specified in your grant letter. The first entry date is generally set at 12 months from the date of visa grant.
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
See what conditions might be attached to this visa on our visa conditions page.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.




























































































