Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)
Research Activities
This visa lets you observe or take part in a research project at a research or tertiary institution in Australia. You and your family who apply for the visa with you can stay here for up to 2 years.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa, you can
observe or take part in a project at a research or tertiary institution in Australia
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while your visa is valid
include members of the family unit in your application
Usually, you would observe or take part in the research for up to 12 months.
Researcher activities
You might be eligible for this activity type if you:
are an academic who has made significant achievements in your field
are employed, or were employed in the past, as an academic at a tertiary institution
have been invited to observe or take part in an Australian research project at an Australian tertiary or research institution, usually in collaboration with other academics employed there
Research student activities
You might be eligible for this activity type if you are:
a student or recent graduate of an overseas educational institution
you have been invited to undertake research related to your field of study at an Australian tertiary or research institution 
If you have not yet graduated, you must be undertaking the research to meet the requirements for your overseas qualification.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.
We grant the length of stay based on the activity we approve you to do on the visa.
The maximum stay for this visa stream is 2 years.
The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If you are outside Australia when the visa is granted, the visa stay period starts on the day that you enter Australia. If you are in Australia, the visa starts on the day it is granted.
If we grant the visa, we will let you know how long you can stay.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Explore your visa options.
If you need to stay longer to complete your research activities, you will need to submit a new application for this visa.
Include family
You can:
include members of the family unit in your application when you apply, or
add family members to your application at any time before we make a decision
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements. 
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant. 
Cost
The visa costs AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when you apply for the visa and when we decide your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need, or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
We can't process your application if you don't pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Your activities must not harm the work, training or work  conditions of Australian citizens or permanent residents.
If you stop working for your sponsoring or supporting organisation, you may not be eligible to hold this visa. if this happens, you must do one of the following:
if eligible, apply for a new visa, or
leave Australia within 28 days of stopping work for your sponsor/supporter, or earlier if your visa is expiring
 
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to access your digital visa record.













































































































