Business Talent (Permanent) visa (subclass 132)
Significant Business History stream
This visa is for experienced business owners, to operate a new or existing business in Australia.








With this visa, you can
stay in Australia permanently
work and study in Australia
enrol in Australia's public health care scheme, Medicare
sponsor certain relatives to come to Australia
travel to and from Australia for 5 years
if eligible apply for Australian citizenship
Newly arrived residents may have to wait before they can access certain Australian Government payments and benefits. 
How long you can stay
This is a permanent visa. It lets you stay in Australia indefinitely.
You become a permanent resident on the day we grant the visa.
For citizenship purposes, your permanent residency starts on the day:
we grant the visa if you are in Australia, or
you enter Australia on this visa if you are outside Australia
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply and at any time before we decide on your application.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
The visa costs AUD7,855.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD3,930.00
additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD1,960.00
You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English. This charge is called the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will ask for the fee only if we are going to grant the visa. The second instalment charges are:
main applicant: AUD9,795
family members: AUD4,890
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
Use the Visa pricing estimator  to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
how many places are available in the migration program
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
You must fulfil your business obligations.
Travel
From the date we grant this visa, you can travel to and from Australia for up to 5 years.
After that period, you will need a Resident Return visa (RRV) visa to re-enter Australia as a permanent resident.
If you leave Australia after the expiry date of your travel facility, without being granted another permanent visa with a valid travel facility, for example a Resident Return visa (RRV), you will not be able to return to Australia until you have been granted another visa.
To see when your travel condition ends, use VEVO.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.















































































































