Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Sponsored family stream
This visa stream lets people who are sponsored, usually by a family member, come to Australia to see their family members.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa you can
see family or friends
be in Australia as a tourist, for a cruise or for any purpose except business or medical treatment.
You can study or train for up to 3 months in total on this visa. If your main reason for travelling to Australia is study, a student visa might be more appropriate.
You can't work.
You should check if a Visitor (subclass 600) visa in the Tourist stream might better suit you. The Visitor visa (subclass 600) Tourist stream visa also lets you holiday in Australia to see family and friends and does not require a sponsor.
Cruise
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia - that is, we do not consider you have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. We might grant it for up to 12 months.
We determine the length of your visa on a case by case basis. Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
how long you want to stay
why you want to stay in Australia
You might not be granted the length of stay you want.
Generally we grant this visa with only one entry permitted. This means that after you leave Australia you need to apply for another visa before you can return.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
You can't apply for a new visa in Australia because your visa will have condition 8503, 'No Further Stay'. In limited circumstances, you might be able to request a waiver of the No Further Stay condition.
You must not breach condition 8531. That is, you must not remain in Australia beyond your visa period.
You can explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. A separate application must be made for each member of your family, including those listed on your passport.
If other family members are applying for this visa, your applications can be processed together. Learn more when you apply for the visa.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs AUD195.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics. 
Use the Visa Pricing Estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Health insurance
We recommend you obtain health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
See what we consider adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements.
Travel
If we grant you a multiple-entry visa, you can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
If we grant you a single-entry visa and you leave Australia, you can't re-enter on the visa. You must apply for another visa to come back.
Check if you have multiple or single entry in Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) or your visa grant letter.
Visa record
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.


































































