(Subclass 870)
Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa
This temporary visa lets a parent of an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen visit Australia for up to 3 or 5 years.
For Applicants
For Sponsors








With this visa you can
reunite with children 
visit Australia for up to 3 or 5 years per visa
re-apply for further Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visas to visit up to a maximum period of 10 years in Australia
You cannot work in Australia while you hold this visa.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. This visa does not lead to permanent residence. You cannot apply for a permanent or temporary parent visa when you have applied for or hold this visa.
You can apply to stay in Australia for up to 3 or 5 years at a time, with a cumulative maximum stay of 10 years..
If you held a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa and were outside Australia on 1 July 2021, your visa period was automatically extended by 18 months under the COVID-19 visa concessions. If your visa was extended under this concession, the additional 18 months will not count towards your cumulative 10 year maximum stay.
You can stay for the period or date(s) specified on the visa grant letter. We will determine how long your visa is granted for.
Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
how long you want to stay
the sponsorship cessation date
You might not be granted the length of stay you want.
If you have been granted a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, the sponsor’s other parent cannot be granted a visa with a later end date.
For example:
Parent A and Parent B are both sponsored by Child A. Parent A applies for a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, and the visa is granted for three (3) years. Parent B applies for a three (3) year Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa some 18 months later. In this scenario, Parent B can only be granted a Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa for the remaining period of Parent A’s visa validity period (in this case, 12 months). The same amount of Visa Application Charge is payable for Parent A and Parent B.
Your visa will end:
on the date specified on the visa grant letter
we cancel it
if your sponsor withdraws their sponsorship and you do not find a new Parent Sponsor
if we cancel the sponsorship
Stay longer
You cannot stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. If you wish to remain in Australia, you must apply for and be granted another visa.
Applying for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa
If you are applying for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa, you must lodge your application from outside of Australia. This applies unless we have issued you with Permission to Apply in Australia (but not in immigration clearance).
If you apply for another Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa whilst outside of Australia, you will not be eligible for this visa unless you have been outside of Australia for at least 90 consecutive days since your relevant departure day.
You can calculate your relevant departure day based on your location when your last Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa ceased:
If you were in Australia – your relevant departure day is the first day you left Australia after your visa ceased.
If you were outside of Australia - your relevant departure day is the last day you left Australia while the visa was in effect.
If you have held Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visas for the cumulative maximum 10 year period, you will not be eligible for a further Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa. You must either depart Australia or apply for and be granted another kind of visa that will allow you to remain in Australia.
Include family
You cannot include family members in your visa application.
Sponsorship
You must have an approved Parent Sponsor to apply for this visa.
Your sponsor’s household is limited to one sponsorship at a time.
Your sponsor’s sponsorship can cover up to 2 parents per household at a time.
Your sponsor cannot lodge a new sponsorship application until their current approved sponsorship ends.
Cost
This visa costs from:
AUD5,895 for a visa of up to 3 years; or
AUD11,785 for a visa of up to 5 years.
You pay for this visa in 2 parts called instalments.
Pay the first instalment when you apply. Pay the second instalment when we ask you to. See more about visa fees and charges.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates biometrics.
To work out what this visa will cost, you can use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply for this visa, unless you have Permission to Apply in Australia (but not in immigration clearance).
Permission to Apply in Australia may be approved in exceptional circumstances. This may include where the parent cannot depart Australia, for example, because of:
the parent having an accident or a serious illness (medical evidence must be provided) or
a natural disaster preventing travel to the parent’s home country. 
You can be in or outside Australia, but not in immigration clearance, when we decide your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Travel
You can travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
Your obligations
You must obey Australian laws and meet all visa conditions.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.














































































