Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)
Subsequent entrant
This visa is for family members of subclass 457 and TSS visa holders who are applying separately for their TSS visa and wish to join the primary subclass 457 or TSS visa holder in Australia.








About this visa
Usually you apply for your visa at the same time and combined with the visa application of the main applicant. In some instances, this may not be possible. This may occur where the composition of the family changes after:
the main applicant has already submitted their application for a TSS visa and it is still pending a decision
a subclass 457 or TSS visa has already been granted to the primary TSS visa applicant
When this occurs and you want to join the primary applicant on their visa, you must apply separately by submitting a visa application in you own right. This is known as subsequent entrant.
When you submit your visa application for a subsequent entrant, you are required to attach a written letter from the sponsor extending their sponsorship obligation to include you as a family member in the nomination.
This requirement is intended to ensure the primary applicant’s employer is aware of all the family members to whom their sponsorship obligations will extend.
Discuss this matter with the sponsor in the first instance before lodging your subsequent entrant visa application.
With this visa, you can
live and work in Australia
study (you won’t receive government assistance)
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid
if eligible, apply for permanent residence
Your visa will come with conditions attached to it. To see your conditions refer to your visa grant letter or use VEVO.
Cost
Primary visa holder holds a TSS visa
The visa application charge for a subsequent entrant application will be calculated based on the stream in which the primary visa was granted (that is, a short-term, medium-term or labour agreement stream).
Primary visa holder holds a subclass 457 visa
In cases where a primary visa holder holds a subclass 457 visa, and not a TSS visa, the visa application charge for subsequent entrant applications is calculated as per regulation 1240(2)(a)(ii) – "for any other applicant", with the charges being as follows:
base application charge - AUD3,115.00
additional applicant charge for applicants 18 and over - AUD3,115.00
additional applicant charge for applicants under 18 - AUD780.00
Note: if the sole applicant on a subsequent entrant application is under 18 years of age, they will be charged the base application charge and not the additional applicant charge.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for as long as your visa is valid.
Stay longer
If your visa is expiring and the primary visa holder wants stay in Australia to work for their existing employer:
the employer will need to submit a new nomination
you must apply for a new visa
The primary applicant’s employer could also sponsor the main applicant for permanent residence through the:
Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186)
Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme (subclass 187)
The primary applicant might be eligible for other skilled work visas. Use our visa finder to find out options for work. 
Include other family members
Family members who can apply for this visa are those who are members of the family unit of the primary subclass 457 or TSS visa holder.
Family members who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements.
Primary visa must have been submitted or decided
Family members cannot be added to a primary visa applicant’s TSS visa application after it has been submitted.
A subsequent entrant application should be submitted if the primary visa applicant has already submitted their visa application and you were not included as a family member in their application and:
their subclass 457 or TSS visa application is undecided as it is still being processed, or 
the primary visa applicant has been granted a subclass 457 or a TSS visa and you wish to join them in Australia 
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application but not in immigration clearance.
If you are applying in Australia, you must hold:
a substantive visa, or
a Bridging visa A, Bridging visa B or Bridging visa C
You might be able to apply even if your substantive visa has a no further stay condition attached to it.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
We assess applications on a case-by-case basis, and actual processing times can vary due to individual circumstances including:
whether you have lodged a complete application, including all necessary supporting documents
how quickly you respond to any requests for additional information
how long it takes to perform required checks on the supporting information provided
how long it takes to receive additional information from external agencies, particularly in relation to health, character, and national security requirements
We might ask for more information. We are not obligated to request further information or documents and can make a decision on the information provided. It is your responsibility to ensure all relevant supporting/evidentiary documentation is attached to your application
Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.
See which visa conditions might be attached to this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
If we grant you a visa, we will send you a grant notification letter containing the visa grant number. You can use this number to check your visa details and conditions through VEVO.
































































































