Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Tourist stream (apply in Australia)
This visa stream lets you visit Australia as a tourist, to visit family and friends or for purposes other than business or medical treatment.








With this visa you can
visit family or friends
be here as a tourist, for a cruise, or for any purpose except business or medical treatment
You can study or train for up to 3 months on this visa. But if your main reason for travelling to Australia is study, a student visa might be more appropriate.
You can't work.
Cruise
You will need a visa if you enter Australia during a cruise.
If your cruise is a round trip cruise, the time you spend on the cruise counts as time spent in Australia. We do not consider you to have left Australia. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa.
Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. 
You can stay for the period or dates specified on the visa grant letter. We determine the length of your visa on a case by case basis. Things we might consider when determining your stay period include:
how long you want to stay
why you want to stay in Australia
We might not grant you the length of stay you want.
We can grant this visa with multiple entry or no travel.
If we grant you a visa with multiple entry, you can leave and return to Australia on the visa while it is valid.
You may need to show there are exceptional circumstances if you want to stay in Australia:
as the holder of one or more visitor visas
and for more than 12 consecutive months
If you want to stay longer or permanently in Australia you will need to apply for a visa that allows this.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for another visa.
Explore your visa options.
Include family
You can't include family members in your application. Each family member, including those listed on your passport, must submit a separate application.
Newborn child
Find out what to do if you give birth to a child after you apply.
Cost
The visa costs from AUD490.00 for each applicant.
You might also have to pay:
other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics
a Subsequent temporary application charge
To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa pricing estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply in Australia
Eligible applicants can apply for this visa in Australia. If you apply in Australia, you must be in Australia when we make a decision on your application.
You can apply for a new visa if your visa does not have a condition that prevents further stay, such as condition 8503. You might be able to request a waiver of the no further stay condition in some circumstances.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.
Learn more about visa conditions.
Health insurance
You are liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.
To cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia you should take out adequate health insurance.
Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia.
In some circumstances, we might grant your visa with Condition 8501 – Maintain adequate health insurance.
Travel
Check if you have multiple entry, or single entry, in VEVO or your visa grant letter.
If you have multiple entry, you can travel outside Australia and return while your visa is valid.
If you have no travel and you leave Australia, you have to apply for another visa to return.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.





































































