Subclass 407
Training visa
This visa allows you to take part in workplace-based occupational training activities to improve your skills for your job, area of tertiary study, field of expertise or in a professional development training program in Australia.
For Applicants
For Sponsors









With this visa, you can
visit Australia to complete a workplace-based training (to improve your skills for your current occupation, area of tertiary study or field of expertise), or a professional development training program
Nomination types
This visa allows people to take part in workplace-based training to improve their skills for their job, area of tertiary study, field of expertise or in a professional development training program in Australia.
Nomination requirements are different depending on the purpose or type of training.
There are 3 types of occupational training covered by this visa:
Occupational training required for registration
Occupational training to improve skills in an eligible occupation
Occupational training for capacity building overseas. This includes overseas qualification, government support or professional.
Nomination is the stage where the sponsor provides details about the nominee (intended trainee), the purpose or type of training and how and where the training will be provided.
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa.  We might grant you a visa stay in Australia for up to 2 years.
You can leave and re-enter Australia on the visa while it is valid.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa.
You can apply for another visa. Explore visa options. 
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply
Family members who apply for the visa with you must also meet our health and character requirements.
If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirements.
Newborn children
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply or when you hold your visa.
Subsequent entrants
If we grant you the visa, your family members might be able to apply to join you in Australia later as a subsequent entrant.
They can do this using the Temporary Work and Activity Visa (Subsequent Entrant) (403,407,408) form in ImmiAccount.
Family members applying subsequently should :
be listed on the nomination form if their sponsor is not a Commonwealth Government Agency, and
provide a letter from the sponsor of the primary applicant confirming the sponsor has agreed to sponsor them
Cost
The visa costs from AUD415.00 for the main applicant.
There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you.
You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your application might take longer to process if:
you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
we have to verify your information
We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must obey all Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.
The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Financial support
You will need to be able to financially support yourself while in Australia. You will need to be able to financially support accompanying family members.
Changing sponsors
If you decide to train with another organisation while you are in Australia, you will need to be sponsored by that organisation. They must submit a new nomination for you.
When the new nomination is approved you can do your occupational training with that organisation for the time remaining on your visa.
You do not have to apply for a new visa, as long as you continue to do the training program your visa was approved for.
If your occupational training program changes, you need to submit a new visa application.
If your sponsor ends your training you must tell us. You may try to find another organisation to sponsor you.
Apply for a new visa
If you want to apply for a new Training visa (subclass 407) you will need continuing sponsorship. You may have to provide an explanation of why you were unable to complete the training within the initial training period.












































































































