(Subclass 771)
Transit visa
This visa allows you up to 72 hours to transit Australia. If you also hold a Maritime Crew visa, you can use this visa to fly to Australia to join an eligible ship as a crew member (within 5 days of arriving).








You might not need it
Before you consider your visa options for transiting through Australia, check:
 transit facilities at Australian airports,
your travel arrangements and
if you are eligible to transit without a visa.
You may not need a Transit visa if you are:
a NZ passport holder who meets the eligibility requirements for a Special Category (subclass 444) visa (SCV)
eligible for:
an Electronic Travel Authority (ETA),
a Visitor visa or
an eVisitor visa.
as these visas permit the holder to Transit through Australia. They also permit a longer period of stay.
You may not need a Transit visa if you already hold another valid Australian temporary or permanent visa, and that visa permits you to transit Australia. You can check your visa conditions on VEVO.
With this visa, you can
enter Australia and stay for no longer than 72 hours before leaving by air or sea
enter Australia by air to join the crew of an eligible ship within 5 days of arrival as a Maritime Crew visa (MCV) holder.
Cost
Free.
How long you can stay
No longer than 72 hours, unless you are the holder of a Maritime Crew visa.
Maritime Crew visa (MCV) holder
You have 5 days from arrival by air to sign onto your eligible ship, otherwise your MCV will cease and you may become an unlawful non-citizen. You will need to apply for a new Transit visa on each occasion you need to enter Australia by air to join a ship. 
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. If you want to stay longer, you must apply for another visa.
Explore visa options.
Include family
You can't include family. You must make a separate application for each person travelling. This includes babies on their parent's passport.
Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply and when we decide your application.
Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.
Your obligations
You must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws.
Learn more about conditions for this visa.








































































